SUPERFIGHTS
by
Keith W. Strandberg

FADE IN:

TIGHT ON HAND
It PULLS away from the CAMERA.

INT. WAREHOUSE – DAY
An old Chinese man, GRANDFATHER, going through a beautiful Tai Zhi
Quan form. It is very peaceful and graceful. The form ends with a
palm strike towards camera, blacking out the frame. (for possible
INTERCUT use)

INT. SUPERFIGHT ARENA – NIGHT
Spotlights cut through the murky darkness while rock music PULSES.
The sound of the crowd, barely visible in the darkness, is a
RUMBLE in the dark, not unlike the sound of an enraged animal.
They are yelling for blood!
QUICK CUTS of other fighters in the ring, including Punks, Sumo
wrestlers, Kickboxers, Shootfighters, and others. It's a
spectacle, and we see bits and snippets of it all – the knockout
blows, the colorful fighters, the incredible techniques, the
bloodshed, the brutality. DARKCLOUD and NIGHT STALKER face off in
the ring. (ONE FIGHT)
Darkcloud is slamming Night Stalker in the head over and over.
With the second blow, the man's mouthpiece goes flying into the
crowd. Soon, the blood starts to spray, but the man doesn't stop
hitting.
In the front row, right next to the ring, is JACK CODY, an 18 year
old dreamer. Drinking it all in, he is yelling his lungs out for
the fighters.
A WOMAN standing next to Jack cringes at the brutality and covers
her eyes.
WOMAN
How can you watch this?
JACK
It's great, isn't it? I love it!
The woman looks at Jack uncomprehendingly, then shakes her head
and steps over him to get out, then walks up the stairs to the
exit.
Though the woman is very beautiful, Jack doesn't even watch her
go. He is too intent on the action in the ring.
Now, one of the women fighters, ANGEL, dressed in a sexy outfit
that shows off her body, but also displays her finely defined
muscles, is fighting another SuperFighter. She is brutalizing the
other fighter, yet both are covered in blood.

The towel has now been thrown in, but Angel STILL doesn't stop.
Angel has her opponent by the throat and is motioning to the
crowd, thumbs up or thumbs down.
"NO MERCY" cries the crowd, and Jack is yelling louder than
anyone.
JACK
Take it to her, Angel! Yeah!
Angel spins and hook kicks her opponent in the head, then spins
the other way and side kicks her into the ropes. The other fighter
FLIES off the ropes and lands face down in the center of the ring.
It's brutal and barbaric.
And Jack loves every minute of it.
A spotlight lights up the stage, and two bizarre FIGHTERS stand in
the middle, facing each other.
ANNOUNCER
In the red corner, Budokai!
BUDOKAI is dressed in a gold lame uniform, his belt black. His
face is painted like a kabuki actor, a mixture of black and white
and gold, and his outfit emphasizes his massive muscles.
ANNOUNCER (O.S.)
And in the blue corner, the Enforcer!
THE ENFORCER, dressed like a street punk, with chains and leather,
spikes and chrome, comes into the ring. He is the bad guy here,
and everyone knows it. He raises his muscled arms over his head
and smiles at the crowd, then brings them down into a fighting
stance.
ANNOUNCER (O.S.)
SuperFight!
The two fighters face off in fighting positions. The rock music
increases its BEAT, and the fighters rush each other, the ring
echoing with the fury of their techniques. Budokai is a martial
artist, while the Enforcer is a thug. But a well trained thug,
nonetheless.
Using a mixture of professional wrestling, boxing and street
fighting, the Enforcer HAMMERS Budokai in a beautifully
choreographed fight.
Budokai beaten, the Enforcer stands before the crowd, seemingly
asking them for a decision.
The crowd ROARS.
ANNOUNCER
What'll it be? Mercy?
The crowd YELLS out "NO MERCY!" Everyone except Jack that is, who
likes Budokai, after all.

The Enforcer listens to what they want, then smiles and launches a
huge roundhouse right. Budokai goes sailing out of the ring.
Jack sees this and runs to where Budokai is going to land,
thinking to break his fall.
He does, sort of, but Budokai still lands HARD. They stand up
together, both a little stunned. The Enforcer is now out of the
ring and coming towards Budokai, and Jack is caught in the middle.
Jack, in the heat of the moment, turns to face off with the
Enforcer! He throws a couple of kicks and punches, which have no
effect – except to further enrage the Enforcer.
The Enforcer goes crazy and attacks Jack. Budokai grabs Jack and
throws him up into the sky, and then knocks the Enforcer out, and
Jack lands on top of the Enforcer (like a pin in wrestling),
counting him out.
The ref comes out of the ring and holds up Budokai's hand, and
Budokai reaches down and pulls Jack up to a standing position,
holding his hand up.
BUDOKAI
NO MERCY! EVER!
Budokai looks at Jack, who is beaming with pride, as the crowd
goes crazy. Budokai winks at Jack.
BUDOKAI
Thanks, man. Couldn't have done it without
you...
Jack is in heaven.

EXT. LOADING DOCK – DAWN
A loading dock is closed up, shut down tight. The streets around
it are almost empty. A JOGGER runs by in front, getting a workout
in before a busy day starts.

INT. LOADING DOCK – SAME DAY
In the loading dock, we MOVE THROUGH the assembled goods, boxes
and various things. In the b.g. can be heard the sound of labored
breathing, and solid THUNKS and THWOCKS .
We MOVE through a door that is ajar, into an area of the warehouse
separate from the storage area. On the walls are posters from
"SuperFights", martial arts training posters, pictures of Bruce
Lee, Chuck Norris, Jean Claude Van Damme (from "No Retreat No
Surrender"), movie posters, professional wrestlers, etc.
Pictures of a fighter named MIKE ROCCO are featured prominently.
Rocco, in the pictures, is wearing a special necklace (Open
Hand?). There is a magazine with his picture on it, and the legend
reads "Rocco: Where is he now?" There is also a picture of Rocco
with his arm around a young fighter – a younger Jack.

We see a SHADOW of what looks like two people fighting over the
picture of Rocco.
The sounds of violent training are closer, more immediate.
A counter is piled high with training books, and a TV/VCR
combination sits next to them, a pile of martial arts training
videos sitting on top. A tape is in the machine, and it is paused
on one particular instructor, Mike Rocco, demonstrating a
technique.
Standing next to the counter are mannequins in various positions,
all dressed in sporting goods equipment – at first they look like
real fighters. We see Jack moving among them, doing flips (with
the aid of an unseen trampoline).
Some of the mannequins are wearing protective equipment, others
swimsuits, still others in martial arts uniforms.
Smoothly, we TURN AROUND to see Jack, in a muscle shirt and
workout pants, working on a mannequin, and we realize that they
are just mannequins, not real people. He is very athletic, and has
obviously been training for some time. He is not a master, but he
is strong and effective, with a great
deal of raw talent. When he hits and kicks the heavy bag, hanging
in the middle of the room, it SHAKES the entire room.
Jack is wearing the special necklace that Rocco had on in the
pictures.
After one particularly grueling combination, Jack stops, drinks
from a sport bottle nearby. He then grabs the TV remote and pushes
a button.

ANGLE ON TV
The tape continues, the instructor (Mike Rocco) moving on to
another combination.
Jack watches it carefully, then rewinds it, and plays it again. He
then presses "pause" and puts the remote back. He starts hitting
the heavy bag again, mimicking the combination the instructor
showed on the tape.
As he is working this combination, an alarm on his watch goes off
and Jack stops. He gathers himself for a moment, then bows to the
mannequin.
JACK
Time for the SuperFight.
He moves to the area of the room where the mannequins are set up.
He moves into the middle of them, then raises his arms like
Budokai did last night.
He goes into action, throwing kicks and punches at the mannequins,
breaking them into pieces, throwing them into all the corners of
the room.

When he is done, he stands panting in the center of the mess, then
raises his arms again. One mannequin is still standing.
JACK
No mercy.
He jumps off the trampoline (we see it now) and drives a spinning
wheel kick at the lone mannequin and hits it, but sends himself
sprawling at the same time.
The fantasy is disrupted by reality. Jack smiles and puts his head
in his hands, resting.
FRANKIE
Cody? That you?
Jack doesn't answer right away.
FRANKIE (O.S.)
Yo, Jean Claude Van Dunce? You there?
JACK
Yeah, Frankie. Just finishing up!
FRANKIE comes into view.
FRANKIE
Man, are you wasting your time with this
stuff again? Hey, don't leave a mess
again, OK? Hurry up, we gotta get these
orders out!
JACK
(cheerfully)
OK! I'll be right down.
Jack gets off the ground and starts to clean up the pieces of
mannequin around the room. He assembles the mannequins again for
his next workout, then pauses at the "SuperFights" and "Mike
Rocco" posters.
JACK
Someday...
The CAMERA PULLS OUT, past the tapes, books and posters.

EXT. JACK HOUSE – EVENING
Establishing shot of a run down tract house in a "poor white
trash" suburb of the city. The house is much cleaner than the
others in the area. Obviously, some care has been taken with the
house.
Jack's battered Jeep pulls up to the house, and he gets out. He
pauses for a moment in the front yard, then shakes his head, picks
up some trash from the neighbor's yard, and moves inside.

INT. JACK HOUSE – SAME NIGHT
Jack walks into the house, weary from a long day of work, and
hangs up his jacket.
JACK
Mom, I'm home!
MOTHER
What? No UltraFights tonight?
JACK
(smiling wearily)
It's SuperFights, and they were last
night.
MOTHER
What time did you get home?
JACK
I got to work on time, nobody got hurt,
what difference does it make, Mom?
Jack's MOTHER comes around the corner and confronts Jack. This is
a road they've been over many times, but that won't stop his
Mother from trying to make a point.
MOTHER
What about you? I think it's hurting you.
JACK
I'm not in the ring... yet. When I'm one
of the fighters, then you can worry. OK?
MOTHER
You won't be one of them, Jack, not while
I'm around.
JACK
When they have another try out, I'm going
to be first in line.
MOTHER
No you won't. Your father wouldn't have
wanted...
JACK
Let's not do this again, Mom. I gotta
go...
MOTHER
I have dinner ready for you, just like you
like it. Where are you going, Jack?
JACK
Out, that's all.
MOTHER
Jack, don't walk away from me! I'm talking
to you!

Jack doesn't stop walking as he grabs his jacket, and then goes
out the door. He can be seen walking to his Jeep through the
ripped and patched screen door.
MOTHER
You come right back here, John Jacob Cody!
This minute!
Jack is gone, and his Mother stands there for a moment, waiting.
The Jeep STARTS UP, O.S., and we see the headlights FLARE on
Jack's Mother's face.
MOTHER
(to herself)
Over my dead body!
FADE OUT

EXT. CITY BANK – SAME NIGHT
A deserted parking lot of a city bank. A young, very attractive
Chinese woman, SALLY WONG, walks to the Cash machine outside the
bank, on her way home from work.
She looks around to make sure no one else is there, then proceeds
to the machine. She puts in her card, presses several buttons and
completes her transaction. Her cash is counted out into a money
drawer, and she reaches in and pulls it out.
Just as she turns to go, a voice behind her calls out menacingly
LEADER
We'll take that, sister.
Sally whirls around to see three GANG MEMBERS moving towards her.
They have taken away her escape route. She makes a fist with one
hand, as if she is trying to decide whether it's worth a fight.
Just then a Jeep pulls into the parking lot of the bank, making a
cut through to another street. It's Jack's Jeep, and he pauses for
a moment, taking in the scene. The LEADER turns to look at Jack.
LEADER
Keep moving, asshole.
Jack looks for a moment longer, then pulls out.
Sally starts to raise her hands to fight, and the Leader senses
what she is doing and pulls out a wicked looking knife to dissuade
her.
LEADER
It's not worth it.
LEADER
Remember, it's only money, and you didn't
have it long enough to get attached to it.

Sally looks at the knife, then up at the Leader. She takes a quick
glance around, noting the surveillance camera up in one corner of
the building.
LEADER
No time, sugar. We'll be long gone, and
you'll be all cut up.
(beat)
NOW.
The Jeep pulls into the parking lot again, and this time it stops
right in the middle of the lot, its lights pointed straight at the
group. The High Beams of the Jeep flick on, momentarily blinding
everyone, and the horn BLOWS.
The Leader, one hand over his eyes, motions to one of his boys to
get rid of whoever it is.
LEADER
Take care of that guy!
The Gang Member goes up to the Jeep, and is surprised to find it
EMPTY. Running, lights on, but empty.
GANG MEMBER
Ain't nobody here!
The Leader, who was moving in on Sally, turns to the Gang Member.
LEADER
What?
Just then, from behind one of the bank pillars, STORMS Jack,
taking the Leader and the other gang members completely by
surprise. Using a variety of kicks, punches, strikes and wrestling
moves, he takes them out with little resistance. He wades through
them like they were the mannequins he trains on at work.
JACK
Oh, yeah! This is just what I needed!
When he's done, Jack turns to Sally and smiles, then motions for
her to join him.
Sally gets in Jack's Jeep, and he pulls quickly out of the lot.
The gang members are still on the ground, some of them starting to
moan and move around a little bit.

INT. JACK'S JEEP – SAME NIGHT
Jack is driving along, and Sally is sitting very primly in Jack's
Jeep. Jack steals looks at her, and she looks at him sideways.
Jack is intrigued by this beautiful Chinese girl.
SALLY
Turn right here. This is my house.

The Jeep comes to a stop. Sally opens the door and starts to get
out..
SALLY
(after a beat)
Want to come in?
(very softly)
I'd like you to meet my grandfather.
Jack turns the engine off.
JACK
Meet your grandfather? Sounds like real
fun...
They get out of the Jeep.

EXT. SALLY HOUSE – SAME NIGHT
Sally leads him into her house.
SALLY
He's kind of an old codger... just take
him with a grain of salt.
JACK
Don't worry, I love old codgers.
Through the window, we see a SHADOW looking at them. Then it
disappears.
They go inside.

INT. SALLY HOUSE – SAME NIGHT
A meat cleaver THWACKS down into a wooden cutting board and sticks
straight up.
PULL BACK TO REVEAL Sally's Grandfather, who was cooking dinner
when they came in. He is at least 75 years old, and is wearing a
dark blue Chinese silk jacket.
GRANDFATHER
You fought them over money?!? Are you a
COMPLETE moron?
Jack looks at Sally for help.
GRANDFATHER
You could have gotten her killed.
SALLY
They might not have stopped at the money,
Grandfather.
GRANDFATHER
You don't KNOW that. Do you?

JACK
Gee, correct me if I'm wrong, but most
relatives...
GRANDFATHER
You are wrong. Don't speak unless spoken
to.
SALLY
Grandfather!
The Grandfather looks at Sally, sighs, and then examines Jack
closely.
GRANDFATHER
You are a fighter? What style?
JACK
All different styles.
GRANDFATHER
Which style? Do not attempt to con me.
JACK
I use what works, from karate, kung fu,
kickboxing, whatever.
GRANDFATHER
Bullshit!
JACK
Hey, it worked tonight.
GRANDFATHER
Let me see your hands, 'fighter'.
Jack holds out his hands and Grandfather holds them, looking at
them and squeezing them. Jack squeezes back, but it has no effect
on Grandfather.
GRANDFATHER
You have never trained.
JACK
I can handle myself.
SALLY
Grandfather, what are you doing? I invited
Jack in to thank him.
GRANDFATHER
Maybe he set the attack up himself, so he
would look good.
JACK
I've had about enough...
Jack tries to pull his hands away, but he cannot. Jack continues
to try to pull away, but Grandfather has his hands in a vice grip.

GRANDFATHER
Not yet.
Grandfather takes Jack's hands and forces them into the flour on
the counter top.
JACK
What the hell?
GRANDFATHER
OK, fighter, let's see how good you really
are. All you have to do is touch me and I
will give you the credit you think you
deserve. OK?
JACK
This is ridiculous. Does he do this to
every guy you bring home?
SALLY
I... Grandfather?
GRANDFATHER
Only the ones claiming to be heroes.
C'mon, just one touch...
Jack, thinking he is going to catch Grandfather unaware, lunges
for him, but he's no longer there. Jack moves again, trying to
touch him, but Grandfather is a ghost. No matter how he tries, and
with what techniques, he can't lay a finger on him.
Finally, Jack is so frustrated he gives up. He grabs a towel and
starts to wipe the flour off his hands.
JACK
I gotta get outta here. Sally, I'll call
you.
He walks past Grandfather, who is smiling in success. Before he
completely passes him, however, Jack tries one more time to touch
him. Grandfather, with eyes in the back of his head, moves subtly
out of the way, and all Jack touches is air.
SALLY
Jack, don't go!
Jack is already at the door and opening it. He tosses the towel
back into the room. Sally runs after him, giving Grandfather a
very dirty look. He just smiles an innocent smile that says, "Just
protecting you, my dear."

EXT. SALLY HOUSE – SAME NIGHT
Sally pushes open the door of her house, but Jack is already in
his Jeep and driving away.
She watches him drive away, then raises her face to the stars.

SALLY
Just once why can't he mind his own
business and stay out of my life?

EXT. STREETS – SAME NIGHT
Jack's Jeep, driving on a deserted highway.

INT. JEEP – SAME NIGHT
Jack, still a little angry, driving and thinking.

EXT. JACK HOUSE – SAME NIGHT
Jack drives up to his house, and is surprised to see his house all
lit up, with tons of people milling around. There are Reporters,
Camera Crews, Neighbors and more.
Jack pulls his Jeep into the driveway, and gets out. The entire
group explodes in applause, but Jack still can't figure out what
is going on. He spots a policeman and yells
JACK
Is my Mom OK?
He nods and motions that she is inside the house.
Jack heads for the house, but is stopped by a TV REPORTER and her
camera crew.
TV REPORTER
How does it feel to be a hero?
JACK
What hero? What are you talking about?
Jack pushes his way through the crowd and towards his house, still
concerned about his mother.
In the b.g. we hear the TV Reporter finishing her report.
TV REPORTER
Modest and unassuming, untouched by
stardom, Jack Cody might be a hero in the
truest sense of the world. Just someone
who, despite the odds, does the right
thing. This is Carol Hartman, Channel 8,
live at the Cody house. Back to you, Bob.
Jack gets to his front door and throws it open.
JACK
Mom, are you all right?
He goes in.

INT. JACK HOUSE – SAME NIGHT
He walks into the living room, and sees his Mom getting up from in
front of the TV.
JACK
Mom! Are you OK? What's with all the
people outside?
Jack's Mother runs to Jack, hugging him.
MOTHER
Jack, I'm so proud of you! You're a hero!
JACK
What are you talking about?
MOTHER
Watch! I taped it for you!
She pushes the "play" button the VCR and a news report unfolds.

TIGHT ON TV, INSET PICTURE OF SUPERFIGHTER "PUNISHER"
NEWS ANCHOR
... Punisher found dead – a violent end
for a violent fighter.
(beat)
And now for some good news: Take a look at
some extraordinary footage from Fulton
Bank...
The screen shifts to grainy color security video, which records
the rescue scene where Jack came to the aid of Sally. Jack beats
the three guys, and then hustles Sally into his Jeep.
NEWS ANCHOR
We traced the license plate of the Jeep to
Jack Cody, an employee of GoodSports, a
sporting goods distributor...
Jack turns off the VCR and turns to his mother.
MOTHER
They've been waiting hours for you, Jack.
You saved that girl! You should go out and
talk to them, Jack!
JACK
I don't really want to, Mom.
MOTHER
This is your chance, Jack. You're break.
JACK
Don't make that much out of it, Mom. I
just did what had to be done.

Mother leads Jack to the front door and opens it. Immediately, the
crowd on the lawn surges forward to the door.
MOTHER
This is good news, Jack. There isn't
enough good news on the TV. You know what
I mean?
Jack nods and opens the front door.
The questions start coming, and the lights of the cameras and the
flash of cameras WHITE OUT the picture as we...
CUT TO:

INT. ROBERT OFFICE – SAME NIGHT
TIGHT ON TV IMAGE OF JACK, blinded by the lights of the TV
cameras. He is bombarded with questions, attention which he takes
with his characteristic good humor.

ANGLE ON ROBERT SAWYER, PROMOTER OF SUPERFIGHTS.
He is watching the TV with interest, the lights from the TV
illuminating his face.
He presses the "Mute" button on the remote, and the scene unfolds
on the TV without any sound.
ROBERT
He's perfect.
Robert goes behind his desk and pushes the intercom on his phone.
ROBERT
Lonnie, get me...
The name "Jack Cody" flashes onto the screen, underneath Jack's
image talking to reporters.
ROBERT
Jack Cody. He's on Channel 8 right now.
Set up a meeting for tomorrow, here.
RECEPTIONIST
Yes, Sir.
ROBERT
Oh, and Lonnie? Make sure he comes alone.
No agents, no lawyers. Thanks.
He hangs up the phone and then presses "Mute" again.
It's Jack talking on the TV.
JACK
I just did what I had to do. Anybody else
would have done the same.

ROBERT
An All American Hero. Perfect.

EXT. CITY STREETS – DAY
Jack is out for his training run, and he is spotted by people
walking and working on the street. He runs by a crew of WORKMEN
working on the construction of a house.
WORKMEN
Way to go, Jack!
He heads downtown on his run, and a schoolbus goes by and a group
of SCHOOLCHILDREN spot him.
KIDS
It's him, it's the hero. Hey, Jack! Can we
have your autograph?
Jack waves back, feeling really good.
He turns down a city street, and two beautiful WOMEN RUNNERS are
coming towards him. One of the RUNNERS nudges the other and points
to Jack.
She smiles at him as he runs past.
RUNNER
Want to run my way, Jack?
Jack continues running, but his pace definitely slows.

INT. JACK HOUSE – SAME DAY
Jack is rushing around, trying to get ready for his meeting with
Robert. His mother is following him, haranguing him for even
considering becoming a fighter.
MOTHER
I don't want you to go to this meeting,
Jack.
JACK
You're the one who wanted me to talk to
the reporters, and Mr. Sawyer called me
because he saw me on TV.
MOTHER
You want to be a professional wrestler
your whole life?
JACK
No, but being a SuperFighter is a lot
different from being a pro wrestler, and a
couple of years doing it would be fun. I
had my 15 minutes of fame, Mom. Now is the
time to capitalize on it.

He starts to tie his neck tie, and is having trouble.
JACK
Mom, can you help me out here? I could die
trying to tie this thing.
MOTHER
(after a beat)
No. I won't help you with this.
She walks out of his room, leaving Jack to fend for himself.
He stares at himself in the mirror.
JACK
Great, just great. I hope he's more
interested in my fighting than my
wardrobe.
He does a sloppy job tying his tie, then grabs a notebook and
heads for the door.
JACK
Mom?!? I'm going. Wish me luck?
No answer.
JACK
Thanks a lot!
He goes out the door, and only when he is completely gone does his
mother come into the room, a worried look on her face.

EXT. OFFICE BUILDING – DAY
Robert's office building, with the legend "SuperFights" over the
front door. Jack walks up to the front of the building, admires
the sign, then walks in.

INT. OFFICE BUILDING – SAME DAY
The elevator door opens and Jack walks up to a very impressive
solid wood door, with "SuperFights" engraved into it. He grabs one
of the huge brass doorknobs and pulls the door open.

INT. SUPERFIGHT LOBBY – SAME DAY
Jack walks up to the RECEPTIONIST, who is seated at a state of the
art computer workstation. Her face lights up when she sees him.
RECEPTIONIST
Jack Cody, right?
RECEPTIONIST
Let me just say I'm a big fan. I think
it's great that you're going to be working
with us!

Jack doesn't know what to say. Working with the SuperFighters?
RECEPTIONIST
Mr. Sawyer is expecting you, Mr. Cody.
He's just finishing up a meeting.
As she says this, the door to Robert's office opens, and out steps
three SUPERFIGHTERS: Darkcloud, Night Stalker and Budokai. They
aren't dressed like SuperFighters, however. They are dressed all
in black: leathers, sweatshirts, parachute pants, etc.
Behind them walks Robert, and together they notice Jack, who has
tried to move out of the way (and to close his open mouth as he
watches his heroes come towards him).
ROBERT
Jack! Robert Sawyer! Let me introduce you
to some friends of mine.
BUDOKAI
Hey, I remember you! Man, welcome to the
team! You're my hero now, Jack!
Jack can't believe he is actually talking to the SuperFighters.
DARKCLOUD
I'm Darkcloud, but call me Chuck, OK? Can
I call you Jack?
JACK
Uh... Sure.
NIGHT STALKER
I'm Cliff, better known as Night Stalker.
It's an honor to shake your hand, Mr.
Cody.
JACK
Honor? C'mon, you guys are...
BUDOKAI
You're gonna love it here!
DARKCLOUD
You sure are. Just make sure you ask for
enough money from Robert here.
DARKCLOUD
He can squeeze pennies so hard they bleed,
man.
ROBERT
That's enough, gentlemen. Jack and I have
some matters to discuss. Where's your
lawyer, Jack? Sharpening his pencil?
JACK
No, I...

ROBERT
Don't worry about it, c'mon in! You guys
be careful out there tonight, you hear?
SUPERFIGHTERS
(together)
Yes, Sir! See ya around, Jack!
Robert leads Jack into his office, and then closes the door behind
him, smiling at the SuperFighters.

INT. ROBERT OFFICE – SAME DAY
ROBERT
Have a seat, Jack. Can I get you something
to drink?
JACK
No, thanks, Mr. Sawyer. Thanks for
inviting me over. It was great to meet
those guys.
ROBERT
Those guys are friends of yours, Jack.
And, thank you for coming here tonight. I
know you have a lot of demands on your
time now. You're a popular man.
(beat)
I want to get right to the point, Jack. I
want you to be a SuperFighter. Is that
something that you'd like?
JACK
Are you kidding? I'd kill to be one of the
SuperFighters!
ROBERT
I'm not asking for that... yet.
(smile)
All I want to do is make you an offer.
JACK
The answer's yes.
ROBERT
I haven't made the offer yet, Jack. Do you
have an agent?
JACK
No. Should I?
ROBERT
Not necessarily. Most of the fighters
don't, in fact. I'll walk you through the
contract, and I think we'll come to a fair
agreement, don't you?
JACK
You bet!

ROBERT
Before we do that, however, I want to
introduce you to my favorite SuperFighter,
Angel.
A side door to the office opens up, and Angel, the female
SuperFighter from the opening scene, walks in. She is dressed in
her very revealing, very sexy outfit, and she comes over to Jack.
ANGEL
I saw you on the news. I can't believe I'm
actually meeting you!
Jack is almost speechless.
JACK
I saw you fight the other night...
ANGEL
I wish I had seen you...
ROBERT
If we can come to terms, Jack, I'd like
Angel to train you.
(beat)
If that's OK.
JACK
(swallowing hard)
Yeah, that'd be great.
ANGEL
I'm a real slave driver, Jack.
ANGEL
You have to listen to me about...
everything. I think you've got great
potential, and with a little hard
training, you can be a great SuperFighter!
JACK
I can't wait.
ROBERT
Angel, can you excuse us for a little
while? Jack and I have to cross the t's
and dot the i's.
ANGEL
Don't take too long, OK? I'm hungry.
ROBERT
We'll all go out to dinner after, OK,
Jack?
Jack nods, watching Angel leave the room.
Robert pulls out a thick contract and puts it down on the table.

ROBERT
Here's the contract. I advise you to read
it carefully, but it's tough going. I'll
go over the main points with you. OK?
Angel is now at the door, and she stops and catches Jack's eye,
then winks.
JACK
I want to warn you, Robert, I'm a pretty
tough negotiator. I'm no pushover.
Robert smiles and sits down, ready to put the hammer to Jack.
ROBERT
I saw that the minute we met, Jack.

EXT. WAREHOUSE – NIGHT
Establishing shot of the exterior of the warehouse. Two bodyguards
stand outside.

INT. WAREHOUSE – NIGHT
A "Death Match" is going on, with THE BEAST against a Citizen. The
crowd is wild and unruly, and betting is going on throughout the
scene.
The Beast beats the Citizen handily, and then KILLS him brutally.
It's quite a difference from the SuperFights.

EXT. STREETS – NIGHT
A STREET GANG made up of punks and toughs, along with the
occasional girlfriend, is hanging out in an alley, smoking
cigarettes and killing time. (6 to 8 GANG MEMBERS – Black,
Hispanic, White)
Suddenly, one of the street gang's LOOKOUTS is propelled into the
alley. He SLAMS into the wall on the other side and collapses in a
heap, MOANS once, then is silent.
The gang is up and on their feet, ready for action.
GANG LEADER
What the hell...?
The SUPERFIGHTERS (Budokai, Night Stalker, Darkcloud) come out of
three doorways into the alley, immediately surrounding the street
gang. The Leader starts to go for his weapon, but a movement by
Darkcloud stops him.
DARKCLOUD
I wouldn't do that, Bubba.
GANG LEADER
Name's not Bubba.

DARKCLOUD
It is if I say it is, Bubba.
One of the gang members moves towards Darkcloud, and he is
immediately taken out, brutally, hit and kicked and SLAMMED into
the wall.
INSERT shot of THUGS raising guns, preparing for action.
GANG LEADER
What do you want, man?
DARKCLOUD
30% of the action.
GANG LEADER
What the hell for?
DARKCLOUD
So that doesn't happen to you.
GANG LEADER
No thanks, man.
DARKCLOUD
You got a nice operation, Bubba.
DARKCLOUD
Drugs, grand theft auto, extortion – we
want in.
GANG LEADER
And if I say no?
DARKCLOUD
You know you can't say no, Bubba. Oh, by
the way, it's up to 40% now. Want to try
for 50% by complaining some more?
GANG LEADER
Screw you, man.
DARKCLOUD
Wrong answer, Bubba.
The SuperFighters JUMP into action in the alley. They are all
trained fighters, and the gang members are no match for them. It's
over quickly, with brutal efficiency, the SuperFighters dispatch
the gang members.
When it's over, Darkcloud stands the Leader of the gang up by
applying a very painful joint lock.
DARKCLOUD
50-50 now, Bubba. Pick ups once a week.
Try to cheat me, you get dead. Comprende?
The Leader nods, in a world of pain.

About eight miscellaneous TOUGHS, who are aiming guns, come out
from the darkness. Darkcloud turns towards them and smiles,
motioning to the Gang Members on the ground.
DARKCLOUD
See, I told you we wouldn't need you guys.
They said we couldn't beat some sense into
your thick skull!
He laughs and drops the Leader, motioning for his SuperFighters to
follow him out of the alley. The gang members stay on the ground,
too hurt to move.

INT. TRAINING GYM – DAY
Jack walks through the door into the training gym, which is very
high tech, all marble, machines and red and blue floors. Only the
best for the SuperFighters. Jack is astonished by the room, and he
walks around looking at it in awe.
As he looks around, in walks Angel.
ANGEL
Good morning, Jack. It's nice to see
you're on time.
JACK
I'm all yours.
ANGEL
How true. You got a clean bill of health
from our doctors. Let's see what you can
do, OK?
She pushes a button on a keyboard located on a pedestal, and three
TVs in the marble wall are revealed.
ANGEL
This is the main training area for the
fighters. Usually, you all train together,
but we'll be training alone for the first
couple of weeks, however.
JACK
Why?
They walk over to the two beams of light streaming down against
one wall.
ANGEL
Jack, don't ask too many questions, OK?
When I call out a kick or a punch, you hit
through the lights. They measure speed and
power. Got that?
JACK
You bet.

ANGEL
Stepping side.
Jack does it. A power read out registers on the computer display.
ANGEL
Backfist, straight punch.
Jack does it.
ANGEL
Spinning hook, roundhouse, front kick.
Jack performs them, hitting the beams of light each time.
ANGEL
Left hook. Right jab. Left uppercut.
Jack does them all, and is performing very well. A series of QUICK
CUTS shows Jack hitting the bags and targets, with each hit
scoring "power points" on the computer read out.
ANGEL
Now I want to measure your reaction time.
Enter the chamber, please.
She walks over to the keyboard and punches in several commands.
Jack stands in the middle of the chamber, and suddenly the poles
on each side of the chamber come flying out. Jack tries to avoid
the poles, but still gets hit a few times while doing it.
We see the computer screen measuring the result of the training.
ANGEL
OK! Take a break for a minute, Jack.
(beat)
Not bad. Your numbers are pretty good.
JACK
Thanks. Is the test done?
ANGEL
Not quite yet, Jack.
Angel moves up close to Jack, body to body.
JACK
What... are you doing, Angel?
ANGEL
Checking vital signs...
She presses her finger against the vein in his neck, feeling his
pulse.
ANGEL
Not too fast, that's good.

She runs her hands over his body, gently, caressing. She checks
the vein in his arm.
ANGEL
A little faster now – you enjoying
yourself, Jack? That's good, too...
Her hands goes farther down, caressing his buttocks, then moving
towards the front.
JACK
Angel...?
Jack jumps a little, and Angel snaps.
ANGEL
Stand still!
She presses her right hand between his thighs.
ANGEL
Best indicator of heart rate activity.
Your heart's pumping to beat the band,
Jack...
She smiles at Jack, then pulls her hand back, taking care to brush
up against the front of his workout pants as she goes. Angel
growls a little.
ANGEL
My favorite vital sign... Oh, the things
you'll see, Jack. We're going to have so
much fun training together.
JACK
(forced, throaty,
embarrassed)
Should we be doing this?
ANGEL
You'll do whatever I say.
JACK
Here? Now?
Angel laughs, then starts to walk away.
ANGEL
We have all the time in the world, Jack.
We start for real, training, I mean,
tomorrow. Get a good night's sleep, Jack,
you'll need it.
She tosses him a bottle of pills. He catches it.
JACK
What are these?
ANGEL
Vitamins. Special for the SuperFighters.

JACK
I don't like pills.
ANGEL
They're vitamins, Jack. Take them.
Jack watches as Angel exits, leaving Jack tortured and all alone.

INT. ROBERT OFFICE – DAY
Robert is in his office, kissing with Lonnie, his receptionist,
when the door flies open and OATES comes in flanked by two
BODYGUARDS.
They have knives drawn, and they PULL Robert and Lonnie apart,
Oates holding Lonnie, the Bodyguards holding Robert, knives at
both their throats.
Robert looks at him and smiles.
ROBERT
Mr. Oates. What a pleasant surprise.
Oates moves the knife closer to Lonnie's throat, and she tries to
pull away, terrified.
OATES
If I was calling the shots, you'd be
already dead. Understand me, Sawyer?
Robert just nods.
OATES
Instead, my people want to send you a
message. You don't agree, we kill the
girl.
ROBERT
The girl?
Oates indicates Lonnie.
ROBERT
Oh, her.
(beat)
Go ahead.
OATES
Excuse me.
ROBERT
Go ahead. You got what it takes?
OATES
I kill her, you're next.
ROBERT
You have to do her first.

Lonnie looks at Robert, stunned at what he is saying. That he
would sacrifice her.
Robert is still smiling, until he moves, and when he moves he is
incredibly quick, and brutal. He strikes the two bodyguards, and
they go down immediately.
When they are down, he turns to Oates, who still has the knife at
Lonnie's throat.
ROBERT
Your turn. I'm calling your bluff.
Oates doesn't move, but he is terrified by this unfeeling maniac.
Robert moves and HITS Oates, knocking him away from Lonnie.

INSERT: LONNIE'S THROAT SLASHED
Robert doesn't even see that Lonnie has been hurt. He closes on
Oates.
ROBERT
Let me get this straight... You thought
you'd tell me what to do? Strongarm me? Is
that how your pea brain works?
OATES
What's the big deal?
ROBERT
I'm the big deal.
OATES
Hey, I won't do it again, if that's what
you want.
ROBERT
That's only part of what I want.
Robert attacks Oates, and he is brutal and ruthless.
He hits him with a strike to the stomach, which doubles him over.
ROBERT
That hurt? Straighten up.
With difficulty, Oates straightens up and tries to hit Robert. As
soon as he comes all the way back up, Robert blocks his strike and
hits him again, with a different technique this time. Oates goes
farther down, and seems to hurt much more.
ROBERT
That hurt more, I could tell.
Interesting...
OATES
(between gasps)
C'mon, I said I'd stop.

He grabs Oates by the hair and stands him up. Oates tries to swing
on Robert, but he blocks it easily and drives a strike into the
arm, breaking it.
ROBERT
I never knew that was so effective.
Oates' arm hangs limply by his side, and his face is a mask of
agony. Robert hits him a couple more times, analyzing the
reaction.
ROBERT
Hmmm... Lonnie, you should leave now.
Robert drives a knife hand into Oates' collar bone, breaking it
with an audible CRACK. Oates' screams again, and now both of his
arms hang useless at his sides.
ROBERT
How bad is the pain? Can you describe it?
No answer from Oates, who is in incredible pain.
He pulls back and gets himself set, then drives forward with a
special technique, striking Oates in the chest, right where the
heart is.
Oates' eyes go wide, and his mouth opens in a silent scream, then
he drops over dead.
Robert stands over Oates and studies his hand.
ROBERT
It works. And, you'll never threaten me
again. It's just a win-win day.
He exits the room without looking back.

EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING – DAY
An exclusive, gated community – expensive townhouses and security
guards. A limousine pulls up and into a parking place, and out
step Angel and Jack. She leads him into one of the units.

INT. JACK APARTMENT – SAME DAY
It's an incredible apartment, complete with vaulted ceilings,
fireplace, open staircase, eat in kitchen, exercise room and much
more. Angel gives him a guided tour, and we tag along.
In the master bedroom, Angel lays on the bed and motions for Jack
to join her. Jack shakes his head and moves on to another room.

INT. RESTAURANT – NIGHT
VARIOUS SHOTS of Jack eating dinner at an expensive restaurant
with other SuperFighters (Budokai, Night Stalker, DarkCloud,
etc.), Angel, beautiful women, etc. At the end of the obviously
expensive meal, Jack pulls out his wallet and, over protestations
from the rest of the group, produces a wad of bills to pay the
tab.

EXT. JACK APARTMENT – DAY
Jack comes out of his apartment carrying his workout bag, late for
his workout with Angel. He runs up to his Jeep, only this time
it's not his beat up Jeep, but a beautiful, new Jeep Cherokee
Sport. He hops in and drives off.

INT. TRAINING GYM – DAY
Jack is training with Angel. Before they begin, she hands him a
cup of water, and he takes the pill.
They start training, and Angel is a slave driver. Jack has never
worked so hard.
ANGEL
This is our newest training device,
designed by SuperFights for close quarter
combat.

EXT. CITY STREETS – DAY
Jack drives past the warehouse where he used to work, and the
irony is lost on him. Frankie is outside, and he spots Jack.
FRANKIE
Hey, Jack! Way to go, man! Hey, can you
stop for a second? Yo, Jack!
Jack smiles and drives on.
Jack passes by an area of the city in his new car, and Sally is on
her way to work, a working girl with a briefcase. She stops at a
light, next to a workman carrying a mirror. We see Jack's Jeep
first in the mirror, then Sally sees him. She tries to say hello,
but he doesn't see her.

EXT. CAPITOL BUILDING – DAY
Jack is running stairs, with Angel watching, holding a stop watch.

EXT. RIVER – DAY
Jack and Angel are standing in the river, throwing kicks.

INT. TRAINING GYM – DAY
Angel is drilling Jack with Muay Thai bags. Jack is kicking hard,
sweating up a storm.

EXT. PARK – DAY
Jack and Angel are running together. They start to sprint, and
Angel is staying right with him.

INT. JACK APARTMENT – DAY
Jack is heading for the door for a workout. He stops at the sink
and takes his "vitamin".

INT. TRAINING GYM – DAY
Jack is lifting weights, with Angel as his coach. He is working
very hard, and Angel is urging him to work even harder.

INT. LOCKER ROOM – NIGHT
Jack is lying in the whirlpool, the bubbles flying around him, the
steam rising, taking the pain out of his tired muscles.
The door to the locker room opens and Jack barely acknowledges it,
he is so exhausted.
We get the impression of a HUGE, HULKING BEAST who appears in the
steam behind Jack, who is totally unaware.
The Beast comes closer, big hands and arms reaching for Jack, when
a muffled order is BARKED.
Jack sits up straight in the whirlpool, looking around for
someone, something.
JACK
Who's there?
No one answers.
The Beast recedes into the anonymity of the steam, leaving Jack
searching in the steam for the something he thought he saw.
JACK
This is a rookie thing, right, guys? Ha,
good one! You guys got me a good one!
He sits back down in the whirlpool, but doesn't quite relax the
way he was before.

INT. TRAINING GYM – NIGHT
Jack, after his whirlpool, comes out of the locker room.
He goes past the Women's locker room, and there is Angel, in full
view, almost completely naked. Jack doesn't want to look, but he
stops anyway.
Angel knows that Jack is watching, and she consciously gives him a
little show.

INT. SUPERFIGHT ARENA – NIGHT
TIGHT ON RING, where a SuperFights bout is going on. Two
flamboyant fighters are going at each other, in a series of great
techniques. It's RASPUTIN against THE MERCENARY. Rasputin is
dressed like a Red Army General crossed with a mad monk. The
Mercenary is dressed like an American soldier in this "patriotic"
battle.
Angel and Jack are sitting with Robert in the crowd.
Jack is in street clothes, watching the action (his first fight is
not for a little while). The crowd is loud and ready for blood and
violence, and the SuperFights are ready to give it to them.
INSERT: Underground betting is going on here.
ROBERT
You ready for this craziness?
JACK
(looking at Angel)
You bet. Just say the word.
ROBERT
It's Angel's call.
ANGEL
Soon.
The fight continues, and The Mercenary is really taking the fight
to him, but the things that The Mercenary is doing aren't having
any effect on Rasputin.
In fact, Rasputin looks really angry. The Mercenary hits him with
a roundhouse right, and there is NO reaction. Nothing.
The Mercenary stops fighting and stares at Rasputin, unbelieving.
THE MERCENARY
C'mon, man. Let's do it.
At that moment, Rasputin attacks, and tears into The Mercenary.
The Mercenary is not ready for the onslaught, and he is getting
really hurt.
The crowd is going wild, and everyone is on their feet.

Robert is concerned. He looks at Angel.
ROBERT
What's going on?
Angel shrugs, and looks back at the ring.
ROBERT
FIND OUT!
Angel nods and rushes off. Robert forces a smile to Jack, then
concentrates on the fight again.

ANGLE ON RING
The Mercenary is a bloody mess, and Rasputin is raging at everyone
and everything. Darkcloud is yelling at Rasputin to let The
Mercenary go.
DARKCLOUD
C'mon, man, he's hurt. Let me come get
him...
RASPUTIN
He's mine!
The other SuperFighters, including Night Stalker and Darkcloud,
are debating whether to go inside to get Rasputin. They are about
to go in, when one of the Doctors shows up with a tranquilizer
gun.
He takes aim at Rasputin, who is still putting a hurt on The
Mercenary. He slaps his neck where the tranquilizer goes in, and
SCREAMS at the assemblage, then falls into a heap on the ground.
The Mercenary falls unconscious next to him.
Jack is still watching from the stands.
In the Ring both fighters are being carted out by paramedics.
ANNOUNCER
What a fight! Don't want to meet the Mad
Russian in some dark alley later, I'll
tell you that... Next up, Darkcloud takes
on the Dynamic Duo. It's two against one!
<BEAT> I've just been informed that we
have our newest SuperFighter in the crowd
– Jack Cody,
A spotlight illuminates Jack, and he puts his hand up to see
through the glare. The crowd erupts in applause when Jack stands
up.
It's his moment in the sun, and the bright light wipes out the
image of the fight before.

INT. TRAINING GYM – DAY
Jack and Angel are working out. They are trading kicks, warming
up. Angel is an incredible martial artist. Both of them are
wearing protective gear, which is very futuristic and high tech.
They start to speed up, and Jack begins to wonder if he could take
her. He tries to score some points on her, and catches her off
guard. He scores a kick to the body, and smiles a little.
Angel stops and looks at him, hands on her hips.
ANGEL
(smiling)
You want to go?
JACK
(beat)
Sure. You?
ANGEL
You think you're ready?
JACK
Ready as ever.
ANGEL
OK. Go for it.
They bow to each other and then touch fists. Jack gets into a
fighting stance, and starts to throw a combination, but before he
can even move, Angel is all over him. She is throwing all sorts of
techniques, feet and hands, and she is scoring at will. Her
movements are like lightning, and Jack is getting an old fashioned
ass whupping.
Angel spots Robert off to the side, watching. Angel, in order to
make Jack look good, starts to lose.
They go at it, and Jack is very impressive. Angel leaves herself
open for an attack, and Jack responds with a flying spin kick,
hitting her.
Robert comes out of the background now, applauding a little.
ROBERT
Is he ready?
ANGEL
Yes.
Robert exits the room, and he and Angel slap hands, excited. Angel
then pulls him into an embrace, one that starts as a celebration
and quickly moves to something else.
Jack catches himself and pulls away from her.
ANGEL
You better get some rest, Jack. We can,
you know, finish this later...

JACK
Right.
(beat)
Hey, I read where the police found
Rasputin's body. What happened to him?
ANGEL
Random killing, I guess. It's a violent
world, Jack...
JACK
How'd he get so out of control?
ANGEL
I told you about asking questions, Jack.
'Sides, the SuperFights await.
JACK
What's it like?
ANGEL
Nothing you've ever seen before...
She walks away.

EXT. SALLY HOUSE – DAY
Sally comes walking up to her house, a piece of paper in her hand.
It is a playbill advertising the next SuperFights.
Jack, as the "All American Hero," is featured prominently in the
ad, which is selling tickets and the pay-per-view coverage. Sally
looks at the playbill for a long time, remembering Jack and the
way her Grandfather treated him.
Just then, the door to their house opens, and Grandfather, an
expert in ancient Chinese healing arts, is showing an injured
PATIENT out of the house.
Sally sees her grandfather and quickly folds the playbill into the
smallest possible size, then hides it in her purse. She then walks
into her house.

EXT. SUPERFIGHT ARENA – NIGHT
"SuperFights Tonight" lights up the arena marquee.

INT. SUPERFIGHT ARENA – SAME NIGHT
The crowd is jumping, and the arena is packed. In the center is
the SuperFights ring/cage, and all the spotlights are on it.
A martial arts demonstration is going on in the center, and the
crowd is cheering as three children use various martial arts
weapons in a demonstration. They finish and bow to the crowd.

INT. ARENA LOCKER ROOM – SAME NIGHT
Jack is sitting at his locker, his uniform on. It is a mixture of
traditional martial arts and patriotic glitz – all in all,
however, the effect isn't bad.
He's nervous, tapping his feet and taking deep breaths.
Budokai and Darkcloud come over to him and clap him on the
shoulder.
BUDOKAI
Don't worry! The first one's a piece of
cake!
DARKCLOUD
You're being groomed for the big time,
man. No way you'll lose!
JACK
You think so? You think I'm ready?
DARKCLOUD
Sure! Who you going up against?
JACK
The Enforcer.
Budokai and Darkcloud share a look, their smiles gone. Then,
quickly, they smile again.
BUDOKAI
Nothing to worry about. The guy's a punk.
JACK
(wanting to believe)
Great. Thanks. I feel much better...
SMASH CUT TO:

INT. SUPERFIGHT ARENA – SAME NIGHT
Jack getting SLAMMED in the face by The Enforcer, a huge, very
angry fighter.
He gets HAMMERED again, and thrown to the canvas floor!

ANGLE ON ANGEL, WHO IS WORKING HIS CORNER, SHE WINCES AS HE HITS
ANGEL
Take the fall, Jack! Absorb it!
The Enforcer stands Jack up, and puts him into a hold that looks
very painful, but really isn't.

THE ENFORCER
We met before, didn't we? C'mon, Jack. I
thought you were supposed to be the All
American Hero. Show me something.

ANGLE ON JACK'S MOTHER
She is in the audience, and is very concerned about Jack.
The Enforcer smiles and takes him down with an elaborate Judo
throw, then LANDS right on top of him. Jack's wind comes
completely out of him, and he is just about out.
He looks through the ropes, trying to find Angel, but instead he
spots Sally, who is sitting near the side of the ring.
She motions for him to get up, and surprisingly, he starts to get
off the canvas.
Jack stands completely up and turns to The Enforcer, who is urging
on the crowd in the center of the ring, his back to Jack, not even
looking at him.
Jack goes over and taps on The Enforcer's shoulder. The Enforcer
turns, face curious, only to get BLASTED with a right cross!
He stumbles back and Jack starts a series of beautiful movements
(ones that Angel taught him). The Enforcer is defenseless, and he
gets rocked over and over again.
Finally, The Enforcer is out on his feet, and Jack sizes him up.
He launches and connects with a flying spinning hook kick,
knocking The Enforcer out!
Jack's mother, relieved, gets up and walks out. She is not happy,
but she is glad that Jack is safe.
Jack lands on his feet after the kick and the crowd goes crazy!
Jack raises his hands in the air and quickly goes to the side of
the ring where he saw Sally, looking for her in the crowd.
She is on her way to the ring.
Jack sees that her seat is empty, and before he can look anywhere
else, Angel grabs him and pulls him into a deep kiss.
Sally sees this kiss and stops in her tracks, stunned. She turns
and walks the other way.
ANGEL
You did it!
JACK
We did it!
Jack is still looking for Sally.

INT. TRAINING GYM – DAY
Jack is training, and now all the other SuperFighters are in the
gym training too. They are sparring, they are lifting weights,
some are working out on treadmills or exercise bikes. It is a
flurry of activity.
Jack is stretching to one side, taking it all in. He pushes his
rear end forward, holding that stretch.
ANGEL
I think I remember that position from
somewhere... I just can't seem to put my
finger on it...
Angel puts her hand on his buttocks, and Jack jumps.
JACK
C'mon, Angel. Cut it out!
ANGEL
You seem a little jumpy, you OK?
Angel smiles and walks up, and Jack continues his stretching.
Budokai comes up to him, holding a kicking bag.
BUDOKAI
Hold this for me, will ya?
JACK
You bet.
He steadies himself for the kick. Budokai does a stepping side
kick into the bag, propelling Jack into the wall behind him, where
he hits a bunch of pads and other training apparatus. It all falls
down around Jack.
JACK
Nice kick, man.
Budokai watches him for a moment, and looks like he's about to
erupt in laughter. Then, he thinks better of it and goes over to
where Jack is and helps him up.
BUDOKAI
You must have slipped, Jack.
JACK
Right, yeah, I slipped.

INT. SUPERFIGHT ARENA – NIGHT
QUICK SHOT OF JACK IN THE RING, FACING OFF AGAINST ANOTHER FIGHTER
We just catch the tail end, as Jack prepares to knock him out.
CROWD
No mercy!

Jack takes him out with another flashy kick. This time, Jack
hasn't gotten hurt at all – he's the All American Hero, after all.
Sally is in the audience again, watching and cheering for Jack.

EXT. STREETS – DAY
Jack, dressed in an expensive leather coat, exits the restaurant
with Angel on his arm. A line of FANS, mostly KIDS, are waiting
outside with things for him to autograph.
Jack loves the attention, and he stops and signs for them.
One especially cute KID waits at the end of the line. Jack smiles
at Angel and kneels down in front of him. The Kid holds the piece
of paper out to Jack, then looks at him very seriously.
KID
You're my favorite in the whole world!
(beat)
Are you really a hero?
Jack smiles and takes the paper, then turns and looks at Angel and
smiles.
JACK
I try my best, kid. I try my best.
He signs the autograph and they walk on.

EXT. STREETS – NIGHT
An expensive limousine drives down the street. Suddenly, a car
careens out of control through the intersection, sliding to a stop
right in front of the limo.
The LIMO DRIVER leans on the horn, but nobody gets out of the car.
The Limo Driver gets out and walks up to the car to see if someone
is hurt, or if anyone needs help.
From out of nowhere FLIES Budokai, KICKING the Limo Driver in the
head, sending him down the ground.
Out of the shadows of the street come two other SuperFighters,
Night Stalker and Darkcloud, and they jump into the front seat of
the limo.

INT. LIMO – SAME NIGHT
A short, thin man, GERACIOTI, is sitting on the back seat, two
beautiful women in various stages of undress are sitting next to
him. On the floor is a satchel.
NIGHT STALKER
Sorry to cause coitus interruptus, but I
think you have something for us.

The man indicates the bag on the floor.
NIGHT STALKER
I'll take that.
DARKCLOUD
(reaching out for one of the
women)
And I'll take you!
Night Stalker slaps Darkcloud on the arm and motions for him to
get out of the car.
DARKCLOUD
Maybe some other time, my sweet!
They exit the car.

INT. SUPERFIGHT ARENA – NIGHT
Jack is in the ring, facing off against a bigger, faster, better
opponent, The Mercenary, this time. However, Jack wins again,
using his impressive and very distinctive style to beat him.
In the audience sits Sally, cheering Jack on, anxious for him to
catch a glimpse of her. The Grandfather is sitting with her.

INT. JACK APARTMENT – SAME NIGHT
Jack is in the bathroom, washing up. He is staring at himself in
the mirror, examining his face and his body. He is wearing only
bikini briefs.
JACK
Did you think that fight tonight went
awful fast? I mean, I barely hit him and
he went down.
ANGEL
You were great, Jack! They loved you!
JACK
Yeah, but was I that great? Am I that
good?
ANGEL
Don't ask me, I'm not exactly impartial...
JACK
Yeah, but do you think they're taking it
easy on me because I'm new? I don't want
anything given to me...
Jack grabs a robe and walks out of the bathroom, comes around the
corner towards the bedroom, and there stands Angel, dressed only
in a dress shirt and panties. She is in a fighting stance, her
hands up.

ANGEL
I want you to give it up to me!
JACK
(after a beat)
C'mon, Angel. What are you doing?
ANGEL
You want a fight, you got one.
JACK
(smiling)
I've never fought anyone in lace panties
before.
ANGEL
Enjoy it while you can.
JACK
Angel...
She attacks, and they trade playful techniques, and then Jack
SWEEPS her to the bed, landing next to her in an embrace.
ANGEL
Oh, Jack Cody, you sweep me off my feet.
She pulls him into a kiss, laughing. Jack returns the kiss for a
moment, then pulls away.
ANGEL
C'mon, Jack. Just one time? It doesn't
have to mean anything.
JACK
Yes, it does. Besides, you're my trainer,
and my friend.
ANGEL
What are friends for?
Jack doesn't say anything, so she gets up.
ANGEL
You don't know what you're missing.
She leaves, but not before giving Jack a good look at her body.
JACK
I'm getting a sneak preview...

INT. GANG APARTMENT – NIGHT
Geracioti is sitting with his wise guys in the apartment, talking
and bitching about the way things are, and the way things ought to
be. Geracioti is talking to his two bodyguards, MUSCLE 1 and
MUSCLE 2.
A large metal ceiling fan is spinning fast above their heads.

GERACIOTI
Those guys think they got us, think we're
gonna just roll over – they got another
think coming.
The Gang Leader stands up and walks, posturing.
GERACIOTI
They gonna get the message when they open
that briefcase, you know what I'm saying?
We control too much to just give it away.
Suddenly, the lights go OFF, plunging the apartment into complete
darkness. A second later, the emergency lights come on.
GERACIOTI
What the hell?
MUSCLE 1
I'm there, checkin'...
The door to the room SMASHES open! The Beast BLASTS through the
room, hitting everything in his way. He knocks out both of the
Muscles, then GRABS Geracioti by the throat and lifts him off the
ground.
They are right under the fast moving ceiling fan.
Geracioti is screaming, and sounds of running and shouting can be
heard out in the halls.
Robert walks through the shattered door, flanked by Darkcloud and
Night Stalker.
ROBERT
We opened the case.
(beat)
Wake one of them up! I want a witness when
he dies.
Darkcloud JERKS one of the Muscles up off the ground, and SLAPS
him in the face to bring him around.
Robert walks over to Leader and smiles. He looks up at the ceiling
fan.
GERACIOTI
C'mon, man! DON'T!!
Robert ignores him and turns to the Muscle.
ROBERT
You see this? This is what happens. DO YOU
SEE?
The Muscle nods his head, scared that he's next.
Robert, after a BEAT, turns back to the Beast and nods.

ROBERT
No one steals from me. No one.
Robert motions to the Beast and he raises Geracioti up.
Geracioti's head hits the fan, and blood SPRAYS all over the room.
ROBERT
This must be what they mean when they say
the shit hits the fan.
Robert watches for a moment, then turns to the Muscle. He comes
right up to him, face to sweating face.
ROBERT
Spread the word. Fear me.
He exits without another word.

EXT. PARK – MORNING
Jack is running and training outside, throwing punches while he
works on his endurance. It is foggy out, and as Jack turns on one
of the paths, he sees a hulking Figure.
He stops for a moment, spooked, and looks for the Figure, but it's
gone.
JACK
Who's there?
He continues running, but suddenly, he is attacked by a Masked
Man. They fight, and the Masked Man is a much better fighter than
Jack. Jack is trying to block him, but he cannot.
MASKED MAN
You're not winning the fights, they're
losing them.
JACK
Bullshit! I'm a great fighter.
The Masked Man SLAMS Jack HARD, sending him to the ground.
JACK
What do you want?
MASKED MAN
Robert's not just a promoter, and you're
not just a fighter. It goes way beyond
that. Illegal death matches, fixing
fights, gambling, drugs, organized crime,
murder – he's into it all. You've got to
get out while you can.
JACK
I haven't seen any of that...

MASKED MAN
Not yet. But you will. You're a product,
and once you are the fighter he wants you
to be, you'll become a killer too. Like
the rest...
JACK
I won those fights...
MASKED MAN
We both know you didn't. Pull out while
you still can. And, Jack, don't take the
pills. They aren't vitamins...
JACK
Wait! How do I do that?
The Masked Man is walking away, but he pauses right before he
exits.
MASKED MAN
Just say no.
He is gone, leaving Jack standing in the park all alone. Suddenly,
the life of a SuperFighter doesn't seem quite so glamorous.

EXT. RIVERFRONT – DAY
Jack is walking along the riverfront, his hands in his pockets, He
is absently watching the traffic on the river, and the people
walking around him.
Jack walks a little bit more, then notices a man off to one side,
in a little park, going through a martial arts routine. It's soft
style Tai Zhi Quan, and the man is obviously an expert. Jack comes
a little closer for a better look, and realizes that the man in
Sally's Grandfather.
Jack smiles and watches the man move. Very athletic, very
graceful, with an underlying strength.
The man finishes up a particularly intricate set, then goes and
drinks some water out of a bottle.
GRANDFATHER
(his back to Jack)
You haven't come to see my granddaughter
again.
JACK
I didn't feel particularly welcome.
GRANDFATHER
You give up on everything so easily?
Jack thinks about that one for a moment.
JACK
No, but I...

GRANDFATHER
She is a rare jewel, a wonderful girl...
woman.
JACK
Yes, she is.
GRANDFATHER
Yet you don't come to see her?
JACK
(after a beat)
I have no answer for that.
GRANDFATHER
I see you in the TV ads. You're a famous
fighter now.
JACK
Yeah. Famous.
GRANDFATHER
You are troubled by something?
JACK
You could say that.
GRANDFATHER
I began training my daughter in the
martial arts. Will you do me a favor?
JACK
What?
GRANDFATHER
Come to her training tomorrow morning,
6:30 am, sharp! It will be a happy
surprise for her.
Jack thinks for a moment, then smiles.
JACK
For us both. Can you teach me to move like
you?
Grandfather scribbles an address on a piece of paper.
GRANDFATHER
I'm not a miracle worker. <Smile> Here's
the address. It's not much, but it serves
our purpose.
JACK
See you tomorrow morning.
Grandfather starts in on another form.
JACK
Is that Tai Zhi?

No answer from Grandfather. Jack smiles and walks on, feeling
better than he's felt in a long time.

EXT. WAREHOUSE – MORNING
It is deserted when Grandfather and Sally drive up in his beaten
up pick up truck. They get out and Grandfather looks around for
Jack. There is a homeless person sleeping under a paper box near
some trash barrels, but no Jack.
Grandfather shakes his head, angry at Jack, and at himself.
GRANDFATHER
Damn it!
SALLY
What's the matter, Grandfather?
GRANDFATHER
Life is filled with disappointments,
Granddaughter. Let's go inside.
As they head for the door to the warehouse, the figure under the
paper box stirs, and then stands up.
It's Jack!
SALLY
Jack!
Jack turns towards her and smiles.
JACK
Where have you guys been?
Grandfather is sincerely pleased that Jack is there, but he is
doing his best to hide it.
Jack and Sally embrace, but that is quickly broken up by
Grandfather.
GRANDFATHER
We are here to train, not kissie kissie.
Jack and Sally come apart, reluctantly, and line up.
JACK
Time's a wasting, Grandfather!
They go inside.

INT. WAREHOUSE – SAME MORNING
Jack and Sally are lined up in the middle of the warehouse, which
has some old Chinese training devices in it, as well as
miscellaneous boxes, etc.

GRANDFATHER
The martial arts are about controlling
your body, your mind... and your emotions.
Jack and Sally look at each other and smile.
GRANDFATHER
Horse stance!
They both get into a horse stance, and what follows is a MONTAGE
OF TRAINING SEQUENCES:
Grandfather repositions Jack's hands. Sally SLAMMING Jack in the
chest with a palm heel. Grandfather working on footwork and
movement with Jack. Jack kicking, and Grandfather coming up and
showing him a slightly different
way. Jack and Sally stretching together. They are sweaty and
tired, but there is a spark there.
The workout is over, and Jack is riding a high that he's never
felt before. He yanks his jacket off the floor, and his keys fall
out, and so does one of the pills.
GRANDFATHER
(picking up the pill)
What is this?
JACK
They said they were vitamins.
GRANDFATHER
I don't think so. Don't take any more
until I check it out.
JACK
Sure. Thanks for having me.
GRANDFATHER
You will come back tomorrow?
Sally smiles and looks at Jack.
JACK
Bright and early.
(to Sally)
You want to have dinner tonight?
Sally smiles and is about to say yes. Before she can say it,
however,
GRANDFATHER
Jack!
Both Jack and Sally, surprised, turn towards the Grandfather. Jack
is steeling himself for another scolding.
GRANDFATHER
You have her home by 11:00 pm, no later!
You hear!

JACK
You bet, Grandfather.
Grandfather smiles.
JACK
See you tonight!
He exits.

EXT. RESTAURANT – NIGHT
Jack and Sally are eating at a very nice restaurant. We can see
them through the front plate glass window. A couple of people come
up for autographs, but then they are alone.

INT. TRAINING GYM – SAME DAY
Jack is lifting weights, around the other SuperFighters. At a
certain time, all of them are provided with pills and cups of
water to drink them with. Jack takes his, and makes like he is
drinking them.
After he drinks, Darkcloud winks at Jack.
DARKCLOUD
Breakfast of champions, eh, Jack?
Jack smiles and then coughs into his fist. The pills he put in his
mouth are shot into his hand, and he stuffs them into the pocket
of his workout shorts.

INT. WAREHOUSE – DAY
Jack and Sally are training together, doing a little sparring.
After they have warmed up a little, Grandfather puts them through
the paces. He runs Jack through an agility drill, then holds the
pads for him to hit.
GRANDFATHER
I had the pill checked out, Jack.
Steroids, growth hormone and some other
chemical.
JACK
Which one?
GRANDFATHER
Don't remember. The pharmacist said
something about mind control.
JACK
I stopped taking the pills, but they'll
know something's going on if I'm not
getting any stronger.

GRANDFATHER
You will.
JACK
What do you have in mind?
GRANDFATHER
Qi training.
He places an aluminum can in front of Jack.
GRANDFATHER
Hit this.
Jack goes to punch the can, but Grandfather moves it so that Jack
is punching at air.
GRANDFATHER
With your qi. Qi is inner energy. Your
life force. Everyone has qi, you just have
to learn how to use it. Watch!
Grandfather puts his hand out and stops it about 6 inches from the
can. He closes his eyes and concentrates, an amber glow surrounds
his hand (SFX), and then the can MOVES ABOUT SIX INCHES!
All by itself!
JACK
What the hell?
(beat)
Do that again!
GRANDFATHER
(fire in his eyes)
It's not a magic trick! You do it!
Jack puts the can up on the table and put his hand out, mimicking
Grandfather, looking stupid. He concentrates but the can refuses
to move.
Jack smiles. He thinks it's a trick.
JACK
That's qi? Qi.
(mispronounces the word)
Sounds like you are sneezing.
GRANDFATHER
Qi.
JACK
Bless you.
Grandfather walks over to Jack and puts his hand on his shoulder.
GRANDFATHER
It's Chinese for inner energy, Jack. QI!

He then flexes his palm on Jack's shoulder, and Jack goes flying
across the room, SLAMMING against the wall and sliding down.
Jack nods, then pronounces the word correctly.
JACK
Q-Q-Q-Q-Q-Qi.
GRANDFATHER
Qi can be used for protection, and for
attack. It requires much practice, and
meditation. Breathing and qi are
connected. Each breath brings in power and
strength...
DISSOLVE TO:

INT. WAREHOUSE – SAME DAY
Jack is sitting and meditating with his eyes closed. Sitting next
to him is Grandfather, who has his eyes OPEN! Sally is behind them
both, her eyes closed.
Jack is having real trouble concentrating. He is shifting in his
position, rolling his head on his shoulders, trying to get
comfortable. He opens his eyes and looks around, and sees that
Grandfather has his eyes open.
He looks at Sally, then back to Grandfather. He then puts his hand
out in front of Grandfather, to see if he can see the hand.
No reaction.
He does a few more things, then decides he is going to attack
Grandfather. He prepares a backfist, then lets it fly towards
Grandfather's head.
Before it can land, however, Grandfather blocks it with one hand,
and SLAPS the back of Jack's head with the other.
GRANDFATHER
This meditation is more advanced. It
trains you to distinguish the false from
the true. Now, clear your mind and
continue.
Grandfather and Jack continue to meditate.

EXT. SALLY HOUSE – SAME NIGHT
They are saying good-bye outside the house.
JACK
Your grandfather's a great guy.
SALLY
Didn't start out that way...

JACK
He was just looking out for you.
SALLY
I got news for you, he's still looking out
for me.
She pulls him into a kiss, and it's a major league, passionate
one.

INT. TRAINING GYM – DAY
Jack is training with Angel. He's working on the heavy bag, and
she's watching him, charting his progress.
ANGEL
You're not getting much stronger, Jack. I
don't get it. We normally see 25% increase
by this time, and you're way behind
schedule. What gives?
JACK
Got me, Coach.
Just then, Robert walks in, briefcase in hand, and motions for
Darkcloud and Night Stalker to join him. They break off from their
training and follow him.
JACK
I gotta take a leak... I mean, I have to
use the facilities, Ma'am. May I?
ANGEL
I'll be right here.
Jack grabs and towels and heads down the hallway to the bathroom,
and walks right by the room where Robert, Darkcloud and Night
Stalker went. Jack pauses outside the door for a moment, and sees
Robert put the briefcase down on the desk and open it. Jack gets a
glimpse of money in the suitcase, lots of money, before the door
is closed.
Jack continues on to the restroom.

INT. ROBERT OFFICE – SAME NIGHT
Robert and Angel are getting dressed, after having made love in
his office. Robert treats Angel like his property, and Angel is
starting not to like it.
ROBERT
So, what's up with Jack? He checking out,
strength and speed and all that?
ANGEL
(after a slight hesitation)
He's right on schedule.

ROBERT
Do you think I can trust him? I look at a
lot of fighters, Angel, and I can't afford
to get burnt. Do you think it's time we
took him out with us?
ANGEL
Not yet. Hell, he still thinks he's
winning his fights, fair and square.
ROBERT
Good. Keep it that way. It's good for
business, and he's become quite a star,
hasn't he? He's young, and we've got all
the time in the world.
Robert watches Angel as she continues dressing.
He GRABS her by the hair and pulls her to him, yanking her hair
back, lifting her face to his.
ROBERT
You're not getting star struck, are you?
Angel tries to shake her head, but Robert has her held too
tightly.
ROBERT
You don't forget who trained you, and
Darkcloud, Night Stalker and the others,
do you?
Again, she tries to shake her head, but cannot.
ROBERT
Good!
He kisses her brutally, then lets her go, pushing her back to her
clothes.
ROBERT
Let yourself out. I have a meeting.
He exits the room, and Angel wipes her mouth with the back of her
hand, trying to get the taste of him off her.
There is real anger in her eyes as she continues dressing.

INT. WAREHOUSE – NIGHT
Grandfather is drilling Jack in qi cultivation. They are doing
sticking hands, and Grandfather talks while they drill.
GRANDFATHER
The key to using qi is your waist and
legs. You can use your opponent's energy
against him, by sensing the attack and
reacting immediately, before he hits you.

JACK
What do you mean?
GRANDFATHER
Attack me.
Grandfather closes his eyes, and Jack throws a punch at him. It
looks like it is going to hit him, but at the last minute,
Grandfather avoids the punch, redirects the force, then comes back
at Jack, throwing him back about 3 feet.
GRANDFATHER
I am talking about spontaneous reaction.
Your body has a field around it, and when
an attack comes, you feel it.
Jack looks at Grandfather, and he knows Jack doesn't understand.
GRANDFATHER
Hold out your hand.
Grandfather looks at the hand, then thrusts a pin into it. Before
it can go in too far, Jack YELPS and pulls his hand away.
GRANDFATHER
Spontaneous reaction. See?
JACK
Yeah, I see.
They start sticking hands training again.

EXT. STREETS – NIGHT
Three SuperFighters, Budokai, Night Stalker and Darkcloud are
duking it out with an Asian gang (5). They beat them handily.
BUDOKAI
You're out of business.

INT. SUPERFIGHT ARENA – NIGHT
Jack is fighting in the ring, and at one critical moment in the
fight, he tries to use the qi training he is learning. It doesn't
work, however, and Jack is SLAMMED by the other fighter, Night
Stalker.
Surprised, Jack moves away from him, trying to recover. Finally,
he finishes off Night Stalker, then raises his hands to the crowd.
The applause is deafening.
Jack turns to all corners of the crowd, and smiles at Sally.
Angel watches him closely, and sees the look he gives Sally.

INT. TRAINING GYM – DAY
Jack is lifting weights with the other SuperFighters. Several
CLOSEUPS of SuperFighters training (men and women), their rage
apparent. They are so big, and so emotionally on edge.

INT. WAREHOUSE – NIGHT
Jack working on his qi training with Grandfather. He is frustrated
by Jack's inability to concentrate, so he gets a machine out. This
machine generates lights and sounds, allowing Jack to concentrate.
Jack puts on glasses, and does his meditation.

EXT. PARK – DAY
Jack, in the early morning rays of the sun, is doing a soft style
Tai Zhi form. It's beautiful.

INT. WAREHOUSE – DAY
Sticking hands.
More Machine
Jack working on moving the can.
More machine.
Grandfather turns off the machine and attacks Jack, who still has
the eye piece on. Jack is able to defend himself. He doesn't even
notice that he cannot see anything.

EXT. CHINESE RESTAURANT – DAY
Jack is eating dim sum in Chinatown with Sally and Grandfather.
Grandfather and Sally are busy ordering, in Chinese, and so Jack
is very bored.
Jack is sitting there trying to move a can of soda. An amber glow
appears for a split second (SFX), and the can jiggles a little.
Jack is elated.
JACK
It moved! It moved!
Grandfather looks at the waiter and shrugs.
GRANDFATHER
You bumped the table.
JACK
I'm telling you it moved!
GRANDFATHER
All right, all right. It moved. We're in a
restaurant, Jack.

INT. SUPERFIGHT ARENA – NIGHT
The crowd is going crazy, ready for the next SuperFight.
ANNOUNCER (O.S.)
Next up... Darkcloud against The All
American Hero!

INT. ARENA LOCKER ROOM – NIGHT
Jack is all dressed and ready to go for his next fight. He is
standing near the door, waiting for his introduction. There is a
light sheen of sweat over his skin, and he can't wait to get into
the ring.
Robert and Angel appear at Jack's side.
JACK
Mr. Sawyer! How are you?
ROBERT
Jack, I want you to lose this fight.
Jack smiles and nods, then does a double take. He stares at
Robert, looks at Angel, then decides that he's joking.
JACK
Good one, Mr. Sawyer.
ROBERT
The decision has been made, Jack. You
don't win this fight. I'm setting you up
for a huge title match later. You lose to
Darkcloud tonight.
The crowd is chanting Jack's name.
INSERT: Underground betting is going on here.
CROWD
Jack Cody! Jack Cody!
Robert starts to walk away, leaving Angel standing there. Jack
looks at Angel, but she cannot meet his gaze.
JACK
Mr. Sawyer?
Robert doesn't listen and continues to walk away.
ANNOUNCER
Give it up for a fighter who needs no
introduction, the ALLLLL AMERICAN HERO!
The spotlight swivels around to find Jack, standing at the
entrance to the locker room. It lights him up and the crowd ROARS,
but he is still looking off towards Robert.
Stunned.

Finally, Angel edges him towards the ring, and he goes, in a sort
of fog.

INT. SUPERFIGHTER ARENA – SAME NIGHT
Jack is inside the ring, facing off with Darkcloud.
Jack is losing, as he is supposed to. He is still in kind of a
daze.
Robert is in the crowd, and he looks a little concerned.
Darkcloud clinches with Jack, and whispers in his ear.
DARKCLOUD
Jack, man, you gotta make it look good.
You gotta be beating me before you take
the dive.
JACK
Why do I take a dive?
DARKCLOUD
It's in the script.
Jack breaks the clinch and still he is being beaten up. He gets
taken down, and is in real trouble.
Jack looks into the crowd and sees Sally, who has a very concerned
look on her face. Jack is filled with confusion, and gets back up
slowly.
They start fighting again, and now Jack begins to show some spark.
Robert, seeing the change, is relieved.
The fight continues for a little bit, with Jack having the upper
hand now.
The fighters clinch again.
DARKCLOUD
Good man. Let me catch my breath, then I'm
gonna take you out.
JACK
You and what army?
DARKCLOUD
Don't try it, Jack, man. It ain't worth
it.
JACK
I'm not going down.
They break, and now Darkcloud is pissed. This was supposed to be
his win. He charges Jack, intent on really taking him out.

Jack sidesteps the attack, and mounts his own. It's fast and
furious, and very dangerous. Jack uses some of the techniques that
Grandfather has been teaching him.

ANGLE ON ANGEL
She knows what Jack is supposed to do, and sees what he is doing.
She's not sure if she should be angry, or cheer his rebellion.
Jack avoids Darkcloud's brutal attacks, and continues to score. He
finally sets Darkcloud up for the knockout blow.
He pauses for a moment, looking first at Angel and then into the
crowd for Robert.

TIGHT ON ROBERT
ROBERT
Don't do it.
He smiles, then the CAMERA PULLS OUT and Jack KNOCKS Darkcloud
into oblivion.

ANGLE ON ROBERT
Who is furious.

INT. ROBERT OFFICE – DAY
ANGLE ON TABLE
Jack's contract SLAMS down on the table.
ROBERT
See this contract? You signed it! You
don't decide that you are going to win a
match. I tell you to do something, and you
do it. You hear me?
JACK
I...
ROBERT
Nobody asked you to talk! Was I clear when
I told you to lose the match?
JACK
Mr. Sawyer, let me explain...
ROBERT
WAS I CLEAR?
JACK
Yes.

ROBERT
Before I decided to train you, you were a
box boy at a sporting goods store, for
crying out loud. Now, you're a hero and
you're famous. A pretty good deal, I
think, and all I ask is for you to follow
orders. Can you do that?
JACK
I think I can...
ROBERT
Don't think, Jack.
JACK
You can count on me, Mr. Sawyer.
ROBERT
(softening up)
Jack, maybe we started off wrong. This is
entertainment, and we want to give the
audience a good show. Sometimes, that
means we have to play with the outcome,
make a fight better than it otherwise
would be, right?
JACK
Right.
ROBERT
Good. Night Stalker and Darkcloud are
leading a little expedition tonight, and I
want you to go along, help out. OK?
JACK
OK. I'm there.
ROBERT
Good. And Jack?
JACK
Yes, Mr. Sawyer?
ROBERT
No one disobeys me twice.
JACK
Yes, sir.
Jack exits the room.

EXT. CHINATOWN – SAME NIGHT
A restaurant sits on the corner of the street. It is closing up
for the night. A van pulls up to the front of the store, and the
SuperFighters, Jack in tow, pile out and go into the restaurant.

INT. CHINESE RESTAURANT – SAME NIGHT
The group, led by Darkcloud, Budokai and Night Stalker, walk into
the restaurant.
DARKCLOUD
Don't sweat it, Jack. It was a lucky shot,
anyway! Don't ever do that again. You
won't live to see the sun. You understand?
NIGHT STALKER
It's humiliating to get reamed out, man,
but at least you're still alive, bro.
JACK
Yeah. What are we doing here?
BUDOKAI
The dirty work. You develop a taste for
it, though.
JACK
Chinese food?
NIGHT STALKER
Yeah, right.
Darkcloud goes up to the main counter and SLAMS his fist down on
the glass, SHATTERING it into a thousand pieces.
DARKCLOUD
Wang, you've been a bad boy.
BUDOKAI
(to Jack)
Wang is the head of the Tong down here,
and he owes Robert a percentage. We're
collecting.
JACK
I've eaten here before...
WANG, a 40ish Chinese man, comes out of the back.
WANG
I already sent it to you.
DARKCLOUD
Give it up, or we trash your place.
WANG
Trash?
Darkcloud, in answer, KICKS the front of the display case,
SHATTERING it as well.
DARKCLOUD
TRASH!

Out of the back come three WAITERS, and they attack the
SuperFighters, Jack included. Jack is forced to fight alongside
the SuperFighters, even though he knows that it's not right. But,
on the other hand, these are Chinese criminals, so...
They quickly win the fight, the Waiters aren't very good fighters
and corner Wang.
Darkcloud holds Wang, while Night Stalker savages him. He is
hitting him over and over, and blood is everywhere.
Jack turns away, not wanting to look at what they are doing to
Wang. Budokai grabs him and turns him back, forcing him to look.
WANG
OK, OK, I pay you, I pay you.
Wang opens his cash register and pulls out all the money. He hands
it to Jack.
WANG
You are a customer here – why do you do
this?
Jack has no answer.
WANG
Take it all, I don't care. What do I tell
the Tong when they come for protection?

ANGLE ON JACK
Who is stunned by the man's words. He turns on Budokai.
JACK
I thought you said he was the head of the
Chinese Mafia?
BUDOKAI
So, I may have overstated a little. It's
no big deal. You have to go along anyway,
you have no choice.
They take all the money and then leave the restaurant.

EXT. CHINESE RESTAURANT – NIGHT
The SuperFighters get back into the van, the destruction done.

EXT. OFFICE BUILDING – SAME NIGHT
The van that took the SuperFighters on the raid to Chinatown pulls
up in front of the office building, and Jack gets out.
DARKCLOUD
Sweet dreams, Jack.

The van door slides shut and the van takes off. Jack, still shaken
by the attack in Chinatown, walks slowly into the parking garage.

INT. PARKING GARAGE – NIGHT
Jack is getting into his Jeep, when he hears the sound of
footsteps and SHOUTS. Jack ducks behind his Jeep and watches as
several of Robert's HENCHMEN SPRINT through the parking garage.
HENCHMAN 1
Where'd he go?
HENCHMAN 2
Over here! We've got him cornered!
They run off, and Jack is too curious not to follow them. He
slowly moves around the corner and looks.
And is stunned.
There, surrounded by Jack's Henchmen is the Beast. Crazed and
wild.
One of the Henchmen tries to grab onto him, and the Beast destroys
him, SLAMMING him and then discarding him.
ROBERT
Back away!
Jack, alarmed at the sound of Robert's voice, pulls back against
the wall. Robert comes walking up with a man in a lab coat, who is
carrying a case.
Robert pulls a keypad from his pocket and points it at the Beast.
He pushes a button, and the collar around the Beast's neck glows.
Pain fills the Beast.
ROBERT
Rock, don't do this to me, man!
He motions for the doctor, who opens the case and hands Robert a
tranquilizer gun.
Robert takes the gun, loads it and aims at the Beast.
ROBERT
Sweet dreams.
He fires, and the dart sinks into the Beast's neck. Almost
immediately, the Beast calms down and starts to sink towards the
floor.
Robert comes close to the Beast then, and kneels down next to him.
ROBERT
I'm close, Rock. I'm really close. A
couple more and I control it all.

The Beast shakes his head and roars.
ROBERT
Yes! I say yes, and you will do it!

ANGLE ON JACK
Who reacts to the tortured cries of the beast.
ROBERT
I need you, Rock. And you need me.
Robert stands up and motions for the Henchmen to come get the
Beast.
Jack, sickened by the entire night, makes his way back to his
Jeep. He gets in and sits there, breathing deeply.

INT. JACK APARTMENT – SAME NIGHT
Jack opens the door to his apartment, and he is immediately
attacked. It is the Masked Man again, and this time Jack is not
such an easy mark.
They fight for a little while, and Jack is incredibly improved.
The Masked Man is losing. Jack manages to take the Masked Man down
to the ground, and rips off his mask.
It is Budokai!
JACK
BUDOKAI!
BUDOKAI
You've improved.
JACK
What the hell are you doing?
BUDOKAI
You've seen, haven't you? You know what's
going on?
JACK
Yeah, I have. You were right.
BUDOKAI
You have to do something about it.
JACK
What, quit?
BUDOKAI
No, help me get him.
JACK
Get Robert Sawyer? How are we going to do
that?

BUDOKAI
I'm getting proof, and I need your help.
JACK
I just want out. I saw a Monster tonight.
BUDOKAI
You know who that is?
Jack shakes his head.
BUDOKAI
Mike Rocco.
JACK
No.
Budokai nods his head.
BUDOKAI
Sawyer's got us all on a mixture of
steroids and mind control drugs. I know
you're not taking yours, and I stopped
taking mine, a little too late. Rocco was
the first, but that's the future for all
of us.
Jack pulls out his necklace.
JACK
This was Rocco's – he gave it to me when I
was a boy. He was my hero, my inspiration.
BUDOKAI
And he's now Robert's personal killing
machine.
Jack looks out the window for a long moment.
JACK
What do you want me to do?
BUDOKAI
Good man. We need proof – papers and
testimony by both of us. Rousting some
criminals isn't enough...
PAN AWAY FROM THEM.
DISSOLVE TO:

INT. APARTMENT SHOWER – MORNING
PAN DOWN FROM SHOWERHEAD. Jack is in the shower, and we hear the
rest of Budokai's dialogue, while Jack thinks about what to do.
BUDOKAI
... we need the murders, the death matches
and the drug dealing – the proof...

INT. JACK APARTMENT – NIGHT
Jack is meditating. He is having trouble concentrating.

FLASHBACKS HERE:
Jack's Mother, Wang from the restaurant, Budokai, Sally,
Grandfather, Angel, Rocco, Robert, etc.

SPECIAL FLASHBACK:
The young boy from earlier in the movie (maybe several times, one
right after the other)
BOY
Are you really a hero?
Finally, Jack opens his eyes and yell, throwing one very powerful
punch, smashing a large vase on the table to bits.
He knows what he has to do.

INT. ROBERT OFFICE – DAY
Jack is in Robert's office, and Robert looks very pleased.
ROBERT
I'm glad to hear you're with us. You are
the elite. If Nietzsche were alive, he'd
call you a Superman. A guy like you needs
that excitement, that adventure. I need
warriors I can count on.
JACK
You can count on me. When can we go out
again, the whole team?
ROBERT
Soon. I'll let you know.
JACK
Good-bye, Mr. Sawyer.
Jack exits the office.

EXT. JACK HOUSE – DAY
Jack pulls up in his new Jeep and walks up the sidewalk to his
Mother's door. He knocks on the door, and his Mother comes to it.
Over Jack's shoulder, we watch as Mother opens the door and sees
Jack. She registers shock, and then starts to close it.
Jack stops the door gently with one hand.

JACK
Mom. I need to talk to you – you...
(beat)
were right. They're trouble, and I'm
trying to stop it.
His Mother looks up at him, even more shocked. She wants to be
happy to hear this, but she's also worried about her son.
MOTHER
Are you in danger, Jack?
JACK
Not just yet, Mom. We're gonna bring them
down, though. Can I come in?
His Mother smiles and opens the door wide, and Jack goes in,
hugging her. His Mother starts to close the door, but Jack stops
it and leans out of the door.
JACK
There's someone I want you to meet...
He motions to Sally, who is waiting in the Jeep. She gets out and
runs to the house.

INT. ROBERT OFFICE – SAME DAY
Robert is sitting at a table with DarkCloud and Night Stalker.
DARKCLOUD
We made quite an impression on Jack the
other night. He wants in, as badly as we
did.
ROBERT
We've got a problem.
NIGHT STALKER
We own the Italians, the Chinese, the
Koreans, the Jamaican posse – what now?
ROBERT
Someone from inside, feeding information
to the cops...
Looks of surprise from Darkcloud and Night Stalker. Could he mean
us?
DARKCLOUD
You know who?
Robert steeples his fingers and smiles.

INT. JACK HOUSE – SAME DAY
Jack, his Mother and Sally are sitting in the living room, talking
and getting along famously. The cellular phone in Jack's pocket
rings, and he excuses himself.
JACK
Hello?
ROBERT
I need you tonight. Special exhibition, 7
pm.
JACK
The Arena?
ROBERT
No, it's a private affair. Come to
Warehouse 14, off Columbia Avenue, not far
from the office.
JACK
I know...
(beat)
... that area a little bit, I'll find it.
ROBERT
See you tonight.
He hangs up and Jack stands there looking at the phone.
SALLY
What's up?
JACK
I won't know until 7 tonight...
He goes back in and sits down in the living room, a little worried
now.

EXT. WAREHOUSE DISTRICT – NIGHT
There are cars all around Warehouse 14, and people are going
inside. There is a ring/cage set up inside, which is glimpsed
briefly as people pass through the heavy curtains at the door.
Jack pulls up in his Jeep, and parks. As he is walking into the
warehouse, he spies Angel and goes over to her.
JACK
Angel! What's happening?
ANGEL
What's happening to you, Jack? Why are you
getting involved with that son of a
bitch...
JACK
Aren't you?

ANGEL
We all are, I guess.
JACK
What's going on tonight?
ANGEL
A cage fight, for the high rollers.
She motions to the door, where huge FIGHTERS are checking
credentials and invitations. One of the guys doesn't have the
right ID, and one of the Fighters THROWS him away from the door.
ANGEL
Robert wanted me to make sure you got
inside...
JACK
What's that mean, Angel?
Angel doesn't say anything, but walks towards the door, and Jack
watches her go, thinking that he might be in trouble. If he is,
and he goes in, he's dead. If he's not, and he takes off, the
party's over.
He shrugs and starts after her.
JACK
Hey, Angel, wait up!
She turns and waits for him, unable to stop a smile from appearing
as he jogs over to her.
They go through the door arm in arm.

INT. WAREHOUSE 14 – SAME NIGHT
Jack and Angel walk in. There are people everywhere, and bets are
being made. Jack spots Robert on the other side of the arena.
JACK
Who's fighting tonight?
ANGEL
I don't know.
They find a seat. The lights around the ring/cage go low, and
special lights around the rim of the ring/cage go on. They go very
bright, lighting up the whole ring. Robert is in the center of the
ring, playing the part of the announcer.
ROBERT
Ladies and Gentlemen! Welcome to the
famous 'Cage Match' – where only one man
leaves alive. Tonight's bout pits
Budokai...
Budokai comes out towards the ring, and the crowd erupts in
applause.

ROBERT
Against the Beast!
Jack and the crowd watches in awe as the Beast is wheeled in
restraints towards the ring/cage.

ANGLE ON BUDOKAI
He knows this fight is going to be the real thing. He walks toward
the ring/cage, escorted by Darkcloud and Night Stalker.

ANGLE ON JACK, WHO IS WORRIED ABOUT HIS FRIEND
JACK
Who's gonna win?
ANGEL
This one is for real, Jack. I really don't
know.
The fight starts, and the Beast is let out of the cage to attack
Budokai. The Beast gets hit on the way in, but that doesn't seem
to phase it. Budokai circles, trying to stay out of the Beast's
range.
The Beast is so quick, however, and so strong, that soon Budokai
is trapped in a corner of the cage. Budokai mounts a furious
assault on the Beast, but the Beast shrugs it off and attacks.
The attack is brutal, sadistic and bloody. Budokai is being
slaughtered, and the crowd is going crazy. This is what they pay
to see, and they are getting their money's worth.
Jack is watching, and he knows he has to act. He gets up and goes
over to where Robert is watching.
JACK
You gotta do something! He's getting hurt!
ROBERT
That's the reality of our business. It's
brutal.
JACK
C'mon, Mr. Sawyer. He could get killed.
ROBERT
Yes, he could.
At that moment, in the ring, the Beast RIPS off a hunk of
Budokai's shoulder, and stuffs it in his mouth. Jack REACTS to
this, and the crowd, and Robert smiling. Jack's head is spinning,
and he knows that Budokai will be killed if he doesn't do
something.
He runs over to where Angel is sitting and YANKS her to her feet.

JACK
Help me!
ANGEL
What?
JACK
Wait for me get into the ring, then kill
the lights.
ANGEL
Why are you doing this, Jack? You're
throwing it all away!
JACK
They're killers, Angel. I have to help
him!
Angel HOLDS for a moment, then nods her head and goes towards the
office. Jack, meanwhile, makes his way ringside.
The Beast is on top of Budokai, and Budokai isn't even moving.
Jack jumps into the ring and SLAMS into the Beast, knocking him
off of Budokai and out of the ring.
The Beast lands in the crowd, and starts ravaging the people in
the crowd.
The lights go out, and the warehouse is in chaos.
Budokai is a bloody mess, and Jack HEAVES him up onto his shoulder
and starts out of the ring. The Beast jumps back into the ring and
moves to cut them off.
Jack faces off with the Beast, with Budokai over his shoulders.
JACK
Rocco!
The Beast stops at the mention of his name.
Jack pulls out the necklace that he always wears.
JACK
Rocco! I gotta get him some help. OK,
Mike? He's done fighting. You won.
The Beast lowers his arms, and Jack climbs back over the ropes and
heads towards the exits.
Robert is trying to see what is happening over the pandemonium,
and he catches a glimpse of Jack leaving with Budokai.
ROBERT
Rocco! Get him!
The Beast turns to Robert and stares at him. He punches a button
on the keypad, and the collar around the Beast's neck glows.

ROBERT
Get Jack! Now!
The Beast still doesn't move. More power to the collar, and now
the Beast is in agony. He still doesn't go for Jack, however.
ROBERT
Do it.
Instead of charging after Jack, the Beast comes for Robert.
ROBERT
You won't hurt me.
The Beast comes on, but Robert hits another button, putting the
collar up to the limit. The Beast stops his charge and goes down
on his knees in total pain.
Robert walks up to him and shakes his head.
He hits the Beast and kills him immediately.
ROBERT
Told you.
Robert is furious.

INT. SALLY HOUSE – SAME NIGHT
Budokai, bruised, broken and bloody, is laying on a bed in Sally's
house. Sally is trying to clean him up, but a great deal of damage
has been done.
Grandfather pushes her off to the side and lays his hands on
Budokai's chest. An amber glow comes off his hands as he tries to
apply his Qi (SFX), but it won't penetrate.
GRANDFATHER
He's almost gone, Jack.
Jack comes to the bed and sits next to Budokai.
BUDOKAI
Well, you got your proof. Take him down,
you got that?
JACK
You're gonna get better.
BUDOKAI
We both know that's a lie...
He starts to cough, and blood comes out of his mouth.
BUDOKAI
You get him, Jack.
Grandfather takes Jack and Sally out of the room.

GRANDFATHER
We have to help him. Focus your qi.
Jack shakes his head, trying to concentrate.
JACK
I gotta get my Mom. They know where I
live.
SALLY
I'll get her. You stay here and help
Budokai.
Jack nods and concentrates. Soon, he is completely drained, and he
sits down heavily, leaning his head back and closing his eyes.

INT. SALLY HOUSE – NIGHT
Jack is sleeping on the couch in the living room, and somewhere a
phone is ringing (O.S.).
Jack starts to wake up, and the phone keeps ringing.
JACK
(sleepy)
Somebody get that!
The phone keeps ringing, and Jack finally comes awake and realizes
that it's his cellular phone. He pulls it out of his pocket.
JACK
Hello?
We now INTERCUT between Jack and Robert.

INT. ROBERT OFFICE – SAME NIGHT
Robert is sitting at his desk, talking on the phone.
ROBERT
Hello, Jack. Quite a show you put on.

INT. SALLY HOUSE – SAME NIGHT
Jack sits bolt upright, completely wide awake.
JACK
He was going to die, Robert.

INT. ROBERT OFFICE – SAME NIGHT
ROBERT
That was the whole point! I had such plans
for you, Jack, and now you've gone and
thrown them all away.

INT. SALLY HOUSE – SAME NIGHT
JACK
What do we do now?

INT. ROBERT OFFICE – SAME NIGHT
ROBERT
Well, I could let you talk to your
girlfriend, and your Mother, but they're a
little tied up now.
PULL BACK TO REVEAL Sally and Jack's Mother sitting in chairs in
Robert's office, tied to them.

INT. SALLY HOUSE – SAME NIGHT
ANGLE ON JACK, EVERY FIBER OF HIS BEING CONCENTRATED
JACK
Let them go.

INT. ROBERT OFFICE – SAME NIGHT
ROBERT
I don't think so. I'm staging another
fight in one hour, Jack, and you're the
main attraction. Show up alone, or they're
gone. Got that?
JACK
Yeah.

INT. ROBERT OFFICE – SAME NIGHT
ROBERT
See you soon, Jack.
Robert hangs up and smiles at Sally and Jack's Mother.
ROBERT
That's some guy you have there. He really
wants to be a hero.

INT. SALLY HOUSE – SAME NIGHT
ANGLE ON JACK, WHO HANGS UP HIS END OF THE CONNECTION
He walks into where Budokai is lying and checks on him. He is
barely conscious.
JACK
You doing OK?
Budokai nods.

BUDOKAI
He went for medicine.
JACK
Tell him they have Sally and my mother.
I'm going into the ring with Robert.
BUDOKAI
Give him hell.
They clasp hands, then Jack leaves.

EXT. WAREHOUSE 14 – NIGHT
The Warehouse is deserted now

INT. WAREHOUSE 14 – SAME NIGHT
As Jack walks into the Warehouse proper, the loudspeaker system is
running a tape.
ANNOUNCER
... The All American Hero!
The taped crowd erupts.
ANNOUNCER
... against the man who started it all,
Robert Sawyer!
More cheers from the taped crowd.
Jack makes his way to the ring, and he notices that Sally and his
mother are the only "crowd," and they are being guarded by
Darkcloud, Night Stalker, and Angel.
Robert is already there, warming up and watching him.
JACK
I'm here. Let them go.
ROBERT
You beat me, they go free.
JACK
You wanted me, you got me.
Jack climbs into the ring, and a bell is RUNG. The fight is on.
Jack circles Robert warily, not wanting to commit. Robert is
itching to get his hands on Jack.
Jack is having a hard time concentrating, because he is concerned
about his mother and Sally.
They attack each other, and it's clear almost immediately that
Jack is really no match for Robert's technique.

They continue to fight, and soon Jack is bleeding from several
different wounds, and the Robert doesn't even looked winded.
ROBERT
You betrayed me!
Jack is losing.
ROBERT
I trusted you. I gave you a future!
Jack looks over at Sally and his mother.

ANGLE ON SALLY AND MOTHER
Angel is guarding them, but they all have the same look on their
faces. They know Jack is losing, and they can't do anything about
it.
Robert sees that Jack is not completely focused, and that makes
him very angry.
ROBERT
Goddamn it! Fight me!
JACK
How can I? You gotta let them go!
ROBERT
I don't think so.
Robert is hitting Jack almost at will. Nothing Jack does works,
and he is getting slaughtered.
Jack has to do something to save his mother and Sally, so he
manuevers Robert into one corner and manages to hit him hard
enough to send him pitching back against a pile of junk. When
Robert's back hits the boxes, wire and boxes come falling down on
top of him.
Jack takes this opportunity and SPRINTS to where his mother and
Sally are being held. He attacks both Darkcloud and Night Stalker,
and, taking them by surprise, quickly defeats them.
Meanwhile, Robert is struggling to get free.
He starts to free his mother and Sally, and Angel tries to help
him. Jack turns to look at her, and she stops.

ANGLE ON ANGEL, CONFLICTED
Just then, Robert gets free and launches himself at Jack. Jack
doesn't see him, but Angel does.
She jumps at Robert, to put herself in between them, to save Jack.
Robert strikes Angel just as she lands an incredible kick on
Robert, while at the same time he hits Sally and Mother away from

Angel. Robert staggers a little, but not before he hits Angel
several more times.
Critically.
Angel falls back to one side, while Robert falls to the other.
Angel is hurt very badly, and Jack goes to her.
She is dying.
ANGEL
I always wanted to do the right thing,
Jack.
JACK
I know, Angel. You're a hero.
She's gone, and Jack holds her for a moment longer.
Robert is struggling to clear his head, and Jack stands up to face
him one last time.
ROBERT
I made you a star, now I'm going to
destroy you!
Robert SWEEPS him to the ground, then stands over him.
ROBERT
I told you no one disobeys me twice.
He is preparing for the killing blow.

ANGLE ON SALLY AND MOTHER
Sally, dazed, shakes her head to clear it, then runs to the
junction box. flipping it on and off, blinking the lights, like
during Jack's meditation practice.
SALLY
Concentrate, Jack.
Unbelievably, Jack CLOSES HIS EYES!
Robert, shocked, stops for a moment, watching Jack.
He then smiles, sensing an easy target. He rears back, ready to
let go with the killing blow.
He launches the deadly strike and Jack BLOCKS IT!
Without even opening up his eyes!
Jack holds Robert's arm in front of his face, then SNAPS his eyes
open.
We know Robert is in trouble now.

JACK
I'm gonna kick your ass.
Jack then accepts Robert's force and SLAMS Robert with a technique
that ROCKS him back to the other side of the ring. Jack then
attacks, hitting him with everything he has: strikes, kicks,
punches, knees, elbows.
Robert is out on his feet, ready to be put away.
Jack glances down at Angel's unmoving form on the canvas, then
turns back to Robert.
He spins and leaps into the air, connecting with a beautiful jump,
spinning hook kick that sends Robert flying.
Sally and his Mother come to Jack. Sally hugs him, and his Mother
puts an arm around him.
Suddenly the SOUND of police sirens can be heard, O.S. Grandfather
and a heavily bandaged Budokai appear there with a whole squad of
police officers.
Budokai stands at the door and raises his arm in a fist salute to
Jack, while Grandfather runs down to where Jack is.
Jack returns the salute, with Sally and his mother draped on him.
They start walking away from the cage. As they walk by a pile of
resin at cageside, Jack puts his hand in it. He then smiles and
hits Grandfather in the middle of the back.
Jack's handprint stands out in stark relief on Grandfather's black
silk jacket.
Grandfather smiles, thinking Jack is congratulating him.
Freeze Frame on huge white hand print.
CREDITS ROLL
FADE OUT

THE END