FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY
(2nd revised version)
Screenplay by
Chris W. Mitchell
Story by
Miguel Tejada-Flores and Richard Raaphorst
December 22, 2011

FADE IN:
NOTE: Everything that follows is shot by Dimitri’s handheld
CAMERA. Most of it is in COLOUR, some parts are in BLACK &
WHITE.
1

EXT. MONTAGE SEQUENCE / GERMAN TERRITORY - DAY

1

As STRIDENT, VICTORIOUS, SOVIET MARTIAL MUSIC blares, we
see a montage of Russian soldiers advancing into Germany:
A swastika flag lies crumpled in the mud. Sturdy army boots
march over it, trampling it even further and ripping it to
shreds;
In contrast, a number of pristine Soviet hammer-and-sickle
flags flap in a stiff breeze, framed against a clear sky.
They are being proudly carried by a group of Russian soldiers
who plant them on top of a burnt-out German gun emplacement;
An exhausted and shaking German soldier coaxed from his foxhole, hands raised. The Russians pointing their weapons at
him are gentle, sympathetic;
Various portraits of battle-hardened Russian soldiers,
smoking, staring into the distance (some of these faces
will return later). We see one or two falling as if hit by
a Nazi bullet, but there is something unconvincingly
theatrical about it;
Russian soldiers, stripped to the waist washing themselves
at a cattle-trough in a field. They joke around with each
other, splashing;
Soldiers kneel and fire their guns at some unseen enemy
behind us. They are a picture of professionalism;
A pile of German dead;
The German soldier we saw surrendering now sits with a
blanket around his shoulders and a tin-mug of soup in his
trembling hands;
An ancient, toothless German woman, a lamb clutched in her
arms like a baby, is helped from her hovel and given a bar
of chocolate. She looks gratefully into the camera,
obviously happy to be liberated by her Russian friends.
(But then the lamb is taken from her and she realizes she
has unwittingly engaged in a trade.)
2

EXT.

GERMAN COUNTRYSIDE - DAY

The MUSIC continues. RUSSIAN SOLDIERS, emerge from behind
trees and charge forwards, yelling. They seem selfconscious, aware of being filmed. Suddenly, the music is
cut off.

2

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

2.

DIMITRI’S VOICE
Come on! You’re not children
playing a game. Look fierce! Do
it with feeling.
One handsome soldier, VASSILI (25), comes at our CAMERA
LENS and stabs the BAYONET TIP of his rifle towards us VASSILI
How’s that for fucking feeling?
CAMERA JUMPS BACK. The other soldiers, standing around,
stare at us sullenly. They look a lot less brave and noble
than they did in the montage. IVAN (24), a Mongolianlooking Uzbeki in a helmet and a heavily-bandaged foot,
sits down with a grunt. He’s had enough.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Come on now. Go back in the trees
and try it again.
SERGEI (27), a haunted-looking young man who has seen too
much and can’t forget any of it, steps forward.
SERGEI
Maybe you have shot enough today,
Dima.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
That is not for you to say. This
is important work. For the
comrades back home.
SERGEI
And what we are doing is not
important?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Of course, of course, Seryosha.
But the people must see it to
believe it. They must see us
liberating our German brothers.
The soldiers, who have slowly gathered, grin cynically at
this. Handsome Vassili spits on the ground.
VASSILI
I don’t have any German brothers.
IVAN
That’s not what your mother told
me, Vasja!
A ripple of laughter. Vassili takes a step towards Ivan and
starts to pull his knife out, but Sergei holds him back.
SERGEI
Let it go, it’s just Vanya.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

3.

VASSILI
Then tell him not to insult my
mother.
SERGEI
He didn’t mean anything VASSILI
Next time I cut one finger off.
Tell him that.
IVAN
(laughing)
Tell me yourself.
Vassili shoots Ivan a look, then reluctantly replaces the
knife in its sheath.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Please. Just one more time..
But, before the soldiers can start to move back to their
starting places, an OLDER MAN’S VOICE calls SGT. NOVAK (O.S.)
All right ladies, break’s over.
We TURN AND SEE SERGEANT MIKHAIL NOVAK, mid 40’s,
completely bald, but with a thick Stalin-style moustache.
He is obviously the kind of leader you want when things get
bad. He gestures.
SGT. NOVAK (CONT’D)
Let’s get moving.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
I am not finished SGT. NOVAK
I’m sorry, Dima, but we have to
move. If we are to meet up with
the company DIMITRI’S VOICE
But I do not have the shot I
want. It’s essential SGT. NOVAK
(suddenly cold)
Listen. When I agreed to this, I
was guaranteed I would remain in
charge of everything on the
military level.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Yes, of course, but -

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

4.

SGT. NOVAK
Turn the camera off.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
I am here at the behest of the
Party. You have no right to Sergei interrupts.
SERGEI
What about him?
He nods to one side and the camera pans over to where the
German soldier we saw surrendering in the montage sits draped
in the blanket and still cradling his beaker of soup in
shaking hands.
SGT. NOVAK
We don’t need him.
He walks over to the German, who does not notice Novak until
he pulls the blanket from his shoulders. He instinctively
grabs a corner of the blanket and there is a momentary tug-ofwar before Novak’s superior strength wins out.
The German clutches the soup to his chest more tightly, as if
worried that it will also be taken from him.
GERMAN SOLDIER
Bitte.
Sergeant Novak raises his pistol. Sergei suddenly appears in
frame, blocking our view.
SERGEI
You don’t need to film this, Dima.
The camera is lowered to point at the ground, just as a LOUD
GUNSHOT sounds and something splashes over the earth at our
feet.
It is soup. The beaker rolls into frame.
The SCREEN GOES BLACK.
3

EXT.

COUNTRYSIDE - DAY

WE WATCH the SQUAD move through FLAT GREY TERRAIN. Lowlying FOG BANKS give an eerie ghostlike feel.
There are 6 soldiers in the squad. All wear some form of
pack and most carry TOKAREV SVT40 semi-automatic RIFLES.
Ivan and Sgt. Novak carry PPS submachine guns.
One has a MOSIN-NAGANT sniper rifle slung over his shoulder
(ALEXEI - a thin, pale ghost of indeterminate age). Sergei
brings up the rear; his pack holds a military RADIO.

3

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

5.

CAMERA FOLLOWS them, moving from one soldier to the next.
They try to ignore it but some give it looks of irritation.
They keep several feet apart from each other. Everyone holds
their weapon in a ready-to-shoot position except for the grimfaced Alexei who just walks along, his sniper rifle bouncing
over one shoulder.
The camera suddenly swings away, back the way they came. Some
way behind is SACHA (18), a pimply youth who is labouring
under an enormous, heavy backpack with lens-cases and a
tripod strapped to the sides. He trudges along slowly.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Hurry up there. I want to use the
other camera.
Sacha looks at him unhappily and hurries forward with a
shuffling run. He swings the backpack from his shoulder and
plonks it down on the ground.
DIMITRI’S VOICE (CONT’D)
How many times must I tell you? Be
careful with that.
Sacha rolls his eyes and pulls out a 16mm camera with a
swivelling lens mount on the front with three lenses jutting
from it. He twists it to put the widest lens into position.
CUT TO:
Now through a wide lens, Dimitri has hurried to the front
of the squad and is attempting to shoot an aesthetic shot
of the marching boots.
It is only when the last boots have left frame does he
notice - Ivan, with the bandaged foot, squatting at the side of the
track with his trousers around his knees, having a shit. He
NOTICES he’s being FILMED.
IVAN
Do you fucking mind?
The SCREEN GOES BLACK.
4

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - LATER
The men are sitting in a hollow, cleaning their weapons
conscientiously. They are a little more used to the camera
now and try to ignore it.
Ivan is tending to his bandaged foot, scraping maggots off
the dressing with his bayonet. On the edge of the group,
Sacha is sitting next to Vassili, speaking while the other
writes down his words on a crumpled sheet of letter-paper.

4

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

6.

SACHA
... Th- there is a f-f-f-film-maker
with us and he is m-m-m-mmm-making
a film about how we are l-l-l-lliberating Germany. I have been ggiven the honour of c-c-carrying
his very del-del-delicate and exp-ppensive equipment...
Sergei has his headphones on, twiddling dials on the radio.
SERGEI
Bear Cobra three one niner, calling
Mother. Do you read me? Over...
He listens, then shakes his head in frustration and pulls the
headphones off and retrieves a cigarette from inside his coat
and lights it. Only now does he notice the camera.
SERGEI (CONT’D)
Dima. How are you? You think you
made some good shots today?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Can I ask you some questions? For
the folks back home in Russia?
Sergei shrugs and exhales a cloud of smoke.
DIMITRI’S VOICE (CONT’D)
You don’t sound Russian. Where are
you from?
SERGEI
Kracow. Poland. I was in the army
and escaped East when the Fritzies
invaded. Here, look at this..
Sergei pulls a chain from around his neck with a silver
locket. He opens it to show the camera. It is small and out
of focus but we can make out a woman with a child in her
arms.
SERGEI (CONT’D)
They’re why I’m here.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
So you joined the Red Army to
liberate your home-country and be
reunited with your wife and child?
SERGEI
Er, not exactly. You and the
Fritzies were still on the same
side then. I was caught and thrown
in a gulag. Only later, when the
army was so fucking desperate for
volunteers -

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

7.

DIMITRI’S VOICE
I’m sorry, but could you not swear.
I can’t use it if you swear.
SERGEI
Oh sorry! So fucking rude of me.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
You should help me, you know. This
is SGT. NOVAK (O.S.)
Seryosha. Come here.
Sergei immediately jumps up and the camera follows him to the
edge of the hollow where Sergeant Novak is peering through
binoculars. He glances irritably at the camera as he points
something out to Sergei in the distance.
The camera pans, zooms and focuses. At first we just see
fields and the occasional tree, but as the camera pans - we see a tiny little farmstead: a dilapidated barn, a
wooden shed and a little house.
There is an almost invisibly thin thread of smoke rising from
its chimney.
CUT TO:
5

EXT. NEARER THE FARM - DAY

5

The soldiers have spread themselves out and are running, halfcrouching, across the field towards the farm.
The camera, bouncing around, follows behind. We can hear
Dimitri PANTING.
6

EXT. FARM - DAY

6

Just as the soldiers reach the farmstead, we notice a flash
of movement off to one side.
A fat peasant woman in a blue dress is running as fast as she
can across the fields away from us, dragging a small boy
behind her.
Sergei and Sacha dump their packs and chase after her while
we remain behind in the farmyard, watching from a distance.
The woman and child are easily overtaken. We can see Sergei
trying to reason with her, but she is screaming and lashing
wildly about her. The boy is crying too. Sergei loses his
patience and punches her full in the face. She crumples to
the mud.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

8.

Suddenly, Novak is standing in front of the lens, blocking
our view.
SGT. NOVAK
Okay, enough.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Wha Novak’s hand reaches up and covers the lens. We hear the
woman SCREAM again - the SCREEN GOES BLACK.
7

EXT. FIELDS - LATE AFTERNOON

7

(Disjointed, badly framed, blurry shots. We can hear DRUNKEN
RUSSIAN SINGING and SHOUTING and LAUGHING.)
Some time has evidently passed. Ivan is swaying slightly, a
bottle of some sort of home-made spirit tipped to his mouth,
drinking deeply.
Sacha rides wobblingly past on a child’s bicycle, laughing
uproariously.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Comrade! Please give it back! It’s
state property!
The camera wheels around to give us our first view of
Dimitri. He is clean-cut, intellectual-looking and his
uniform looks smart. He holds out his hands to take the
camera, but whoever is holding it refuses to let go.
Vassili appears, wearing the blue dress we previously saw on
the peasant woman over his uniform. It is blood-stained. He
is chewing on a German sausage. He grins into the lens as he
pulls Dimitri back from the camera.
VASSILI
Hey, Moscow Jew-boy! There you are!
DIMITRI
Don’t call me that. This is being
filmed, you know.
VASSILI
You think I care? Where were you?
You missed all the fun. We were
liberating our Ger DIMITRI
(choked)
Fuck you, you sick bastard.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

9.

Vassili just laughs and takes another bite of sausage. In the
background we glimpse the farmstead. It is on fire and thick
smoke coils into the sky.
Sacha, on the bike suddenly appears again and crashes
straight into the camera. It falls to the ground. We hear
hysterical laughter and Dimitri cursing - THE CAMERA RUNS OUT AND THE SCREEN GOES WHITE.
8

EXT. WOODLANDS - EARLY MORNING

8

The remains of a small fire in the middle of a clearing in a
wood. The squad have set up camp. The men are all lying
around, snoring mightily, sleeping off their hangovers. The
camera pans over them.
We notice some details. Ivan is clutching a hand-carved
amulet of some kind. One of Vassili’s arms is sticking out
from under his blanket, revealing his impressive wrist-watch
collection, which runs virtually all the way up his right
arm, some of the pieces are fine examples of German
craftsmanship, but none of them work anymore.
The camera moves towards where Sergei is lying next to the
radio, the earphones still half-covering his ears.
Dimitri’s hand reaches out and flicks a switch on the radio.
We can just make out a crackly, distorted VOICE emanating
from the earphones.
Sergei awakes with a start. He is surprised to see Dimitri’s
camera fixed on him, but then he notices the sound coming
from the ear-phones. He quickly puts them on and listens with
concentration, then SERGEI
Sergeant! I’ve got something!
Sergeant Novak opens his eyes, immediately awake. He crosses
to Sergei who flicks a switch on the radio.
RADIO VOICE
(crackly and distant)
- repeat, this is Tiger Bear three
oh three. We are trapped; we need
reinforcements. Does anyone read
me? Over.
Sergeant Novak nods at Sergei, who gives him the handset.
SGT. NOVAK
Hello Tiger Bear three oh three; we
read you. Over.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

10.

RADIO VOICE
We are trapped. We can’t hold out
for much longer. Our position is
51/17/28N. 13/22/04E. Do you read
me? Over.
SGT. NOVAK
Yes, we read you. What is your
situation? Over.
RADIO VOICE
This is Tiger Bear three oh three.
We are trapped; we need
reinforcements. Does anyone read
me? Over.
SGT. NOVAK
(to Sergei)
He can’t hear us.
RADIO VOICE
We are trapped. We can’t hold
out...
The voice fades and is swallowed by static. The camera zooms
in on Sergei as he frowns and listens, gently tweaking the
dial. He shakes his head, confused.
But then the image is blocked by something large and white
and we pull back to see Novak unfolding a map.
Novak traces the longitude and latitude until his fingertips
meet. (Dimitri does his best to get in tight with the camera,
but it is difficult to discern. There is a symbol meaning
“MINE” next to a village named “FRANKENSTEIN”.)
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Where is it?
SGT. NOVAK
Frankenstein... Some mining village
in the middle of nowhere. We’re not
far. If we force-marched we could
be there before noon.
SERGEI
But what would we be letting
ourselves in for? I mean: Who are
Tiger Bear anyway? I thought we
were the only reconnaissance SGT. NOVAK
Shut up, Seryoshya. It’s Russians.
Our boys. They need our help. What
more do we need to know?
Novak and Sergei lock gazes for a moment, then Sergei nods.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

11.

SGT. NOVAK (CONT’D)
(loudly, to the men)
Get it together, ladies. We’re
moving out in five!
(to Sergei)
Better inform Mother.
SERGEI
I wish I could. That crazy message
is the only thing I’ve picked up in
two days.
Groaning and grumbling, the men begin to stir, pulling on
their boots and stashing away their gear.
SGT. NOVAK
Dima. You need to pack up too. We
won’t wait for you.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Sacha! Wake up! Help me with this!
The SCREEN GOES BLACK.
9

EXT. WOODLANDS - EARLY MORNING

9

The camera follows the squad through the mist-shrouded
forest. Ahead of us, Ivan is limping along beside Vassili.
VASSILI
At least we’ll get to kill some
more Fritzies.
IVAN
Be careful what you fucking wish
for!
VASSILI
Shh. That fucking spy is right
behind us.
Ivan stops suddenly and turns. We bump into him, accidentally
stepping on his bad foot.
IVAN
AAArrgh! What are you fucking
filming now? Don’t you get tired of
staring through that thing all day?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
We must all serve the Proletariat
in our own way, Comrade. This is
mine.
IVAN
Fuck me in the mouth! I might just
have to stick that camera up your
(MORE)

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

12.

IVAN (CONT'D)
ass. That’d be my way of serving
the prole-fucking-tariat.

Ivan turns and strides off into the mist, leaving Dimitri
alone.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
(whispering to himself)
I got that on film, you traitorous
hooligan The camera switches off.
10

EXT. GERMAN COUNTRYSIDE / WOODS - LATER

10

The camera swings around, unfocused for a moment, before
revealing Alexei standing doing something to his rifle-sights
as the sun rises over a peaceful mist-laden meadow.
Hesitantly, the camera advances until we are right behind the
sniper, who is adjusting something with a tiny screwdriver.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Ahem.. Comrade Alexei? I see you
take a lot of trouble to keep your
equipment in top order.
Alexei, slipping the screwdriver into a pocket, moves off
without even acknowledging Dimitri’s presence.
DIMITRI’S VOICE (CONT’D)
(following)
Is that something you learned at
Stalingrad?
Alexei suddenly stops dead in his tracks and turns around. He
starts to advance towards us, staring into the camera with
eyes so full of psychosis that Dimitri takes an involuntary
step backwards and stumbles.
Sergei appears, catching the cameraman’s elbow and preventing
him from falling. He waves Alexei back and the pale sniper
turns and starts walking away again.
SERGEI
(discreetly)
You won’t get much out of Alexei.
And don’t mention Stalingrad again
in his presence. He ate his best
friend there.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Ate? Did you say “ate”?

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

13.

SERGEI
Shh.
CUT TO:
11

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - LATER

11

A blurry movement as the camera is raised and focused.
Sergeant Novak is standing a little ahead, at the top of a
low RISE. He has his hand raised to halt them, then moves
away, disappearing from view.
VASSILI (O.S.)
(whispering)
Do you think he’s found some
Germans?
IVAN (O.S.)
I fucking hope so. This emptiness
is giving me the creeps.
We hear a WHISTLE from over the rise and the squad advances.
The camera follows and Novak is revealed standing next to
something amorphous, a strange pale blue and red colour. The
men stop to look at it and Dimitri moves through them to the
front.
SERGEI
I don’t know if this is what you
need for your film, Mitja.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
That’s not for you to decide.
But then we hear Dimitri GASP as he sees what the strange
thing on the edge of the track is.
It is a pile of naked bodies, all of them female, mostly
elderly, limbs tangled, blue-white skin glowing in the gloom.
They are splashed with dark, red blood.
The camera is shaking, unable to stay fixed on the terrible
subject.
IVAN (O.S.)
I don’t care who did this, but
they’re bastards, whoever they are.
The camera regains control and takes in some details. There
are scraps of black and white cloth lying around, the torn
remains of hassocks.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
(thoughtfully)
..They’re nuns...

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

14.

Suddenly, one of the faces deep down in the nest of broken
bodies moves. It’s eyes open. Startlingly blue eyes. They
stare straight down the barrel of the lens.
The camera careers around for a moment.
DIMITRI’S VOICE (CONT’D)
Oh God! One’s still alive!
A desperate KEENING has started up from the face in the pile
of bodies. It sounds like praying and wailing at the same
time.
The living nun tries to move, causing the pile of bodies to
tremble and shake. Her fingers appear from somewhere else in
the pile, clawing at the air. Dimitri’s camera manages to
focus on the madness-filled eyes of the old nun.
DIMITRI’S VOICE (CONT’D)
Who did this to you? It was the
Nazi’s, right? They did this,
didn’t they?! Tell me!
Sergei steps forward, raises his bayonetted rifle and
forcefully stabs into the heart of the pile of bodies
repeatedly. Finally, the moaning stops.
Silence.
The camera swings round, away from the bodies, passing over
the faces of the soldiers (which display little more than
mild interest in the horror before them).
It ends up pointing at the ground. A sudden splash of vomit
appears in the mud right in front of the camera-lens.
IVAN (O.S.)
Comrade Dima is not used to life
outside Moscow, I think.
The SCREEN GOES BLACK.
12

EXT.

GERMAN COUNTRYSIDE / NEAR VILLAGE - DAY

Novak is peering through his binoculars into the distance
over the camera. He shakes his head and hands the
binoculars to Sergei, who puts them to his eyes.
The camera pans 180 and focuses on a distant, semi-ruined
village.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Is that it? Frankenstein?
SGT. NOVAK (O.S.)
Do you see anything?

12

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

15.

SERGEI (O.S.)
Nothing. No Russians, no Germans,
not even a stinking goat.
SGT. NOVAK (O.S.)
There’s a lot of damage though.
There’s been a fight here.
The camera pans again as Novak turns to his men.
SGT. NOVAK (CONT’D)
We’ll go in via the trees. Very
slowly. Keep your eyes peeled for
booby-traps.
(to Dimitri)
You. Stay at the back, out of the
way.
Sergei moves to the front and the squad start to silently
advance in single-file, weapons at the ready.
CUT TO:
13

EXT. TREE-LINE CLOSE TO VILLAGE - DAY

13

The camera follows Sacha, occasionally moving to one side or
the other in an attempt to see past the big backpack at the
line of men ahead.
SACHA
(in a low voice)
Hey D-dima, you think we’ll g-get a
m-m-m-mmmm-mm-medal for this?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Oh sure. Once Comrade Stalin sees
my film, he’ll pin it on you
himself.
SACHA
Girls l-love m-m-m-mm-mmm-medals.
They like to.. t-t-toy with them..
You know what I mean?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Er.. I’m not sure that I do..
There is a loud CRACK as Dimitri steps on a branch. Sacha
swivels round and looks daggers at us, jerking a finger to
his lips.
DIMITRI’S VOICE (CONT’D)
(whispering)
Can’t you go behind me? I can’t see
a thing.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

16.

Sacha sighs and steps to one side to let us pass and
immediately falls backward into the undergrowth.
SACHA (O.S.)
Jesus Christ!
Sacha reappears, looking down at the ground at what tripped
him up.
SACHA (CONT’D)
S-s-sergeant! Over here!
Dimitri realizes there is something to see, but there is too
much undergrowth in the way. Novak appears.
SGT. NOVAK
Keep you fucking noise down, boy.
What is it?
Sacha points down at his feet. Novak and he stamp down and
tear away the vegetation to reveal the shape of a dead dog.
Dimitri thrusts his camera between the men to get a closer
look.
The dog is headless, the scorched and torn remains of its
neck seeming to have been blasted to pieces by a grenade.
The camera pans down from its front paws to SGT. NOVAK (CONT’D)
Well I’ll be fucked...
- a set of damaged catterpiller-tracks. It’s half-dog, halfminiature tank. The mechanical and the fleshy joined in a
crude marriage of sutures and staples.
IVAN
Fucking hooligans. To do that to a
dog! They truly are monsters.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Yes. But technically.. it’s a
marvel.
SGT. NOVAK
I don’t give a shit. We’re here to
help our comrades. Let’s go.
The camera follows Novak as he goes back to join Sergei at
the front. The camera has to squeeze past the men to get
through.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Sorry.. excuse me..

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

17.

Dimitri finally makes it to the front where Sergei and Alexei
(through his sniper-rifle sights) are again scanning the
territory ahead.
SERGEI
.. No bodies, nothing.. Looks like
the boneyard took some hits.
The camera readjusts to take in what the soldiers can see:
We are much closer to the village.
The closest building to us is a church. It has a churchyard
on one side which has a great deal of piles of churned earth
spread around amid the graves.
SERGEI (CONT’D)
I don’t get it. That’s artillery
damage, not aircraft. We ain’t got
any artillery within fifty miles of
here. Did the Americans do this?
SGT. NOVAK
We’ll head for that church and take
it from there. Give you another
chance of contacting Mother or this
Tiger Bear squad.
CUT TO:
14

EXT. FIELDS APPROACHING CHURCHYARD - DAY

14

Whilst covered by Alexei, the squad run, bent-double,
expecting a bullet at any moment, across the field to the
hedge separating it from the churchyard.
The camera runs with them, bouncing and jerking, Dimitri’s
PANTING loud in the microphone.
CUT TO:
15

EXT. CHURCHYARD - DAY

15

The soldiers spread out and slowly advance towards the
church.
Dimitri stops and begins to inspect the many holes in the
graveyard more closely.
They are not the result of grenades or shells, but digging.
Dimitri, focusing on one of the tipped-over gravestones,
suddenly CRIES OUT - and the camera tumbles downward -

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

18.

- to land on the mouldering shattered remnants of an empty
coffin. Maggots crawl everwhere.
The camera tips up as we hear Dimitri GROAN and Sacha, under
the backpack, appears above us at the mouth of the grave we
have fallen into. The boy stops, staring down at us.
SACHA
Are you alright?
Dimitri appears, brushing maggots from his coat and looking
irritable. He bends to retrieve the camera.
CUT TO:
The camera moves from desecrated grave to desecrated grave,
revealing smashed coffins, some containing mouldering
skeletons and some conspicuously empty.
SACHA (O.S.) (CONT’D)
G-Grave-robbers?
The camera moves around to where an empty coffin lies beside
a hole.
It pans up to the wooden cross at the head of the grave:
“Rudolf Schnellenberg, 18-06-1878 - 19-01-1945”
DIMITRI’S VOICE
They’ve taken the recently dead..
SACHA
What?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
The Fritzies.
SACHA
Why would they want d-d-dead -?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
They’re Nazi’s. It’s what they do.
There is an urgent HISS. Vassili is signalling to them to be
quiet.
The others have gathered around the shattered door to the
church, weapons raised. We see Vassili and Ivan enter,
followed quickly by the others.
The camera waits for a moment, then moves forward to enter.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

16

INT.

19.

CHURCH - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

16

It’s VERY DARK in the church, the only light coming from
the open door, several stained glass windows, set high in
the walls and a hole in the roof.
There is evidence of a fire and other signs of destruction.
As Dimitri adjusts the stop on the camera-lens, more of the
interior becomes visible.
Smashed MACHINERY - broken GLASS - splintered wood. All
this surrounding a large metal cage housing a mine-working
style elevator-shaft.
The elevator itself is not there and a sheared-through
cable dangling at the top of the gantry attests to the fact
that it is gone for good.
SERGEI (O.S.)
What kind of church is this?
VASSILI (O.S.)
It’s more like a factory...
Broken glass and metal CRUNCH and SCRAPE under the feet of
the Russian soldiers.
Here and there in the gloom, the CAMERA REVEALS some
indistinct and puzzling FORMS.
CAMERA RISES UP towards the walls and roof and now we can
see the shapes of a number of HANGING ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
There are lights here, electric
lights.
WE PAN across the ceiling, following the cables through the
gloom to the wall and down to a doorway leading to a separate
room.
We advance and poke the camera cautiously through the doorway
of the murky room. We can just make out that the cables end
at a large generator in the corner.
DIMITRI’S VOICE (CONT’D)
Sacha. Sacha!
Sacha appears.
SACHA
What?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
See if you can get that generator
started?

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

20.

SACHA
Why?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Don’t argue. Just do it!
Then from the other room, we hear VASSILI (O.S.)
Look what I’ve found.
As Sacha starts pulling at levers and turning switches on the
generator, we hurry back to the main space where Vassili and
the other are gathering around something on the floor.
SGT. NOVAK
Another monstrosity..?
The camera stops and prods its way between the men staring
down at the floor. There is the shape of a large naked dead
man lying there.
We hear the METALLIC GRINDING of Sacha trying to get the
generator going in the other room. The lights flicker for a
moment as the generator almost catches.
The jittery light seems to make the corpse on the floor
twitch. There are wires leading from its head which looks
like the burnt head of a match, completely black and
featureless, and there are bullet-holes in its chest.
SGT. NOVAK (CONT’D)
What the -? What’s Sacha think he’s
- Sacha!
But Sacha does not hear. The wires spark as he heaves again
on the starter and this time Dimitri sees that the corpse
really does move.
SGT. NOVAK (CONT’D)
Sacha, dammit. Stop that!
The lights flicker to life as Sacha succeeds in getting the
puttering, rattly old generator going at last.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Er.. Sergeant?
The corpse on the floor begins to thrash and dance as
electricity surges into it. Its right arm jerks up suddenly
as if performing a “Sieg Heil” salute, but the fore-arm ends
in twin points of charred and splintered bone.
The soldiers stand in a circle around the jerking Burnt-Match
Man, understandably fascinated.
One of the wires is torn loose and the current is cut off.
The Burnt-Match Man lies trembling for a moment, then -

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

21.

- begins to try to stand up, his movements spastic and
uncoordinated. Smoke rises from it.
A ripple of nervous laughter runs round the group.
VASSILI
He is hard to kill, this one!
IVAN
(laughing loudly)
He must be an Uzbeki!
The Burnt-Match head of the creature jerks round to face Ivan
and it feels towards him with its good hand. This makes the
soldiers laugh even more.
Novak steps between the creature and Ivan and raises his
pistol to its head.
SGT. NOVAK
That’s enough. I’ll put it out of
its misery.
IVAN
(raising a roll-up
cigarette)
But sir, I was just going to ask
him for a light.
More hilarity among the squad, but then - before Novak is able to pull the trigger, Burnt-Match
swivels suddenly and buries the scorched and sharp points of
his fore-arm bones into the Sergeant’s stomach, pushing him
back against an iron pillar.
A moment of shock all round. Novak stares into the
featureless black husk of a face as it leans into him,
pulling it’s arm out and preparing for a second thrust.
Then Ivan grabs the creature and pulls it away - and it flies back towards us, slamming into the lens.
We tumble and all is blurry pandemonium and screaming,
Novak’s loudest of all.
VARIOUS VOICES
(over each other)
Oh my God, cut the Sarge loose!
Stop it, it’s got his - Shoot it!
Shoot it! But it’s lying on that
idiot cameraman!
The camera falls to one side and we glimpse a shocked Dimitri
scrambling towards us as he grabs the camera. We hear a burst
of MACHINE-GUN FIRE, so loud that it overwhelms the
microphone, causing it to cut out. SILENCE.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

22.

A moment of silent confusion as Dimitri gets the camera on to
his shoulder and pointed in the right direction to see Ivan stands in the middle of the floor, his machine-gun
smoking. Burnt-Match lies someway off. The camera approaches
and we see that its head has been blown completely to
smithereens. It still twitches, but weakly now, as if its
limbs have a life of their own.
Caught between the twin spikes of its fore-arm bones, Dimitri
notices a thick blueish sausage which coils away from the
corpse. He follows the steaming worm, only now noticing that
he is standing on it.
As the silence continues, the camera follows the intestines
and organs to their owner: Sergeant Novak. His entrails lie
spread around the floor; his torso is virtually empty.
The men stare at their leader, stunned.
Vassili pulls his knife and kneels down beside Novak, who
looks up at him, face bloodless, and nods.
Vassili’s lips move as he says something then he pushes the
knife into the exposed heart, killing the sergeant.
The camera turns away and we see Dimitri’s hand fiddling with
something. SOUND returns suddenly.
Though there is nothing to hear. Novak, their leader, is
dead. The men stand around at a loss, staring down at his
corpse.
Except for Sacha, who is glaring straight into the lens,
accusation burning in his eyes.
CUT TO BLACK
17

INT. CHURCH - A LITTLE LATER

17

A blurry moment, camera being turned on and off: a hand in
front of the lens; Dimitri peering into the lens while
Novak’s corpse is being carried away in the background.
SERGEI (O.S.)
Alexei. Set up a perimeter. If
there’s anyone in this fucking
village, they’ll know we’re here
now.
18

INT. CHURCH - A LITTLE LATER
The church is empty except for Sergei who is standing over
the Burnt-Match Man’s body. He kicks it onto its back. The
camera advances as he turns towards us and passes by,
muttering to himself.

18

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

23.

SERGEI
What sick joke is this?
The camera advances further to inspect the corpse closely,
now that Dimitri is alone.
We see that there are large scars running over what is left
of its flesh. Here and there, metal staples glimmer. The two
legs do not match, one hairier and more muscled than the
other.
Dimitri once more notices the cables leading from it and
follows them.
We pass lab equipment, machines, glassware - all has been
smashed or destroyed. There are BLOOD STAINS everywhere, many
old and blackened.
Strewn here and there amidst the wreckage are smashed glass
vats that contained HUMAN BODY PARTS. All are now in an
advanced state of decomposition. Finally the cables lead to - a large MACHINE, several meters tall, covered with dials
and switches. On top of it are porcelain insulators, coils
and heavy metal cables - it is a powerful ELECTRICITY
GENERATOR. The camera moves closer and slowly circles it,
taking in every detail.
19

INT. CHURCH - DAY

19

An aesthetic shot (obviously from the tripod) shows Sergei
bent over his radio, twiddling the dials. In the background,
Ivan sits carving his wooden amulet while Sacha stands at the
doorway next to Alexei, peering anxiously outside, smoking.
Sergei throws down his headphones in disgust.
SERGEI
We’re being jammed. It’s the only
explanation...
SACHA
M-maybe we should j-j-just get the
Hell out of here.
IVAN
The boy is right. There’s something
evil here; I can smell it.
VASSILI (O.S.)
That’s your fucking foot!
DIMITRI’S VOICE
But we’re here now. You heard that
Mayday. Our Russian boys need help.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

24.

VASSILI (O.S.)
But where the fuck are they then?!
DIMITRI’S VOICE
We need to search the village
properly. Otherwise the Sergeant
has died for nothing.
Sergei reluctantly nods.
SERGEI
He’s right. I’ll stay here with
Sacha and the gear and Vassili, you
lead a search of the village. Find
someone, anyone, who can tell us
what’s going on here.
Vassili suddenly appears, half-blocking the frame as he leans
over Sergei.
VASSILI
Correct me if I’m wrong, Seryosha
my friend, but aren’t I the next in
command after Novak?
SERGEI
I don’t think so. Look at the
stripes on my sleeve.
VASSILI
Who gives a fuck about stripes!
I’ve been with this unit longer
than anyone.
SERGEI
That doesn’t mean VASSILI
Oh no? Let’s ask the others.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Vasja, Sergei is right VASSILI
Shut the fuck up, you! You’re just
here to make pretty pictures.
The camera pans around to where the others look on,
uncomfortable. Ivan, Sacha and Alexei (who is at the churchdoor, rifle pointing out).
IVAN
Vasja, my friend. You are too smart
to be in charge. Let Seryosha have
his fun. We can always slit his
throat later if he’s no good.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

25.

VASSILI
Hmpf. Alexei? Sacha? You want him
telling you what to do? The fucking
radio-ham? He’s not even Russian!
Sacha looks down at his feet and shrugs. Alexei turns from
his scanning of the world outside the church, looks at
Vassili and nods curtly.
VASSILI (CONT’D)
Okay. Have it your way. But don’t
come crying to me when he leads us
all into some Fritzie trap.
Vassili turns away and sees the camera close to him and
spitefully pushes it away, sending us sprawling.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Hey! Comrade! Please control your CAMERA TURNS OFF and the SCREEN GOES BLACK.
20

EXT.

STREETS OF VILLAGE - AFTERNOON

20

CAMERA FOLLOWS the three Russian soldiers into the village Ivan, moving with surprising grace considering his thickly
bandaged foot - Vassili, still throwing us poisonous looks and Alexei, the ever-silent, skeletal sniper.
Alexei is in the lead - Dimitri’s CAMERA lags a few feet
behind Vassili as it FOLLOWS them.
They move through what is left of the streets without
saying a word. Searching. CAMERA MOVES BACK AND FORTH focusing on the various piles of rubble. All is lifeless.
No sounds. No people.
Alexei suddenly stops, peering at a pile of rubble at the
side of the street. He reaches down and picks up a twisted
cylinder of blasted metal. Vassili takes it, then hands it to
Ivan.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
(whispering)
What is it?
VASSILI
An artillery shell.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
So? It’s obvious this place has
been shelled.
VASSILI
It’s a German shell. Why would they
shell their own village?

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

26.

Ivan lays the piece of shell silently back on the pile of
rubble and moves on.
The group continue through the destroyed village; the only
SOUNDS come from their FOOTSTEPS. As they turn the corner of
a ruined building, Alexei freezes and raises his gun.
The others catch up with him and then they all pass round the
corner. Dimitri turns the corner too and sees - a great, hulking, tank-like drilling-machine that must have
once belonged in a mine. It is now burnt-out, smoke still
rising from it, evidently destroyed by a shell.
The squad advance to get a closer look, Dimitri’s camera
ZOOMING IN to grab details. Only now can we see that there
are pieces of scorched skeletons amid the wreckage, chains
and wiring betraying that we are again dealing with a
composite of machine and flesh, like the dog-tank.
The soldiers remain silent and move on after a brief look,
but Dimitri stays behind to circle the machine, carefully
taking in every detail.
After a few moments, Dimitri realizes that he is alone. He
pans the camera around and spots the three soldiers at the
edge of a complex of industrial buildings. They all have
their guns raised and are cautiously peering into a gaping
doorway.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Hey! Wait for me!
The camera bounces around as Dimitri runs to catch up with
the squad.
Vassili furiously turns as we arrive beside him, his gun
raised and pointing at us.
VASSILI
(in a threatening whisper)
Make another sound and I’ll fucking
shoot your balls off.
Alexei raises his hand and touches his EAR, indicating they
should be quiet and listen.
Everyone stands stock-still, like statues, all LISTENING.
Then they HEAR it. A faint sound, like a small animal
CHITTERING. It’s coming from inside the doorway.
Vassili signals to the others and they prepare to enter the
doorway. We can dimly see some old machinery inside and - are those cages?
Then Ivan turns TO LOOK INTO Dimitri’s CAMERA. He whispers -

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

27.

IVAN
Dima - be safer outside.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
No. I’m coming in.
Ivan shrugs, then looks at the CAMERA grimly IVAN
Don’t get in my way.
CAMERA FOLLOWS them as they enter through the doorway 21

INT. WORKSHOP/MENAGERIE - DAY

21

- and into a large factory space once dedicated to the repair
of various mining equipment. There are more huge drills and
some man-sized coal-wagons, all covered in rust and dust.
And there are a large number of cages built from chickenwire, barbed-wire, bits of wood, anything.
As the camera pans around them, we can see that inside the
cramped cages are rabbits, dogs, cats, even a badger and, at
the end, pacing endlessly back and forth, a wolf.
The soldiers look around, confused. This was not what they
expected to be the first sign of life they’d find.
VASSILI
I think we’ve found dinner.
He crosses to one of the cages containing rabbits and reaches
inside to grab one, immediately killing it and stuffing it
into his coat-pocket.
Ivan joins him, also grabbing and killing a rabbit. But the
camera is more interested in the space they find themselves
in and Alexei is still on his guard, moving quickly to check
the other doors.
That’s when a door at the far end of the room suddenly opens
and a middle-aged man (IGOR) with long, filthy hair and a
full beard, strolls in carrying a wooden crate containing
potato-peelings and other vegetable left-overs.
His TUNELESS WHISTLING stops abruptly when he sees the
Russians and he drops the crate. Seeing Vassili holding a
dead rabbit by it’s ears, he starts forward again angrily,
beginning to shout something, when - his knee-cap suddenly explodes bloodily. He grunts and
collapses to the floor amid his peelings.
Alexei, moving quickly crosses and plants his foot on the
neck of the German and prepares to blow his brains out as a
coup de grace.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

28.

VASSILI (CONT’D)
No, Alexei! No.
Vassili and Ivan appear, their hands raised, coaxing Alexei
away from the wounded man.
VASSILI (CONT’D)
We’re supposed to get a prisoner,
remember? To interrogate. Find out
where our boys are? Yeah?
Alexei slowly lowers his gun and nods. Vassili and Ivan,
relieved, advance to the prisoner. The CAMERA FOLLOWS.
IGOR
(in German, through the
pain)
Dirty thieves! You are stealing my
rabbits!
VASSILI
What’s the crazy old tramp saying?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Something about you stealing his
rabbits.
VASSILI
(to Igor)
No-no. I’m liberating your rabbits.
From Fascist oppression.
Dimitri focuses on Igor.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
What is this place?
IGOR
(in English)
I don’t understand.
DIMITRI
(also in English)
What is this place? Who are you?
IGOR
I.. I am Igor. I look after the
animals... For the Baron. He needs
animals.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
What Baron?
IGOR
Ha! Frankenstein, of course!
VASSILI
Hey, what the fuck are you saying?

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

29.

DIMITRI’S VOICE
He’s just some servant.
(to Igor)
Where is he? Where is Frankenstein?
Igor looks straight into the lens and then around it,
evidently inspecting the camera closely.
IGOR
Strange camera. Is that a
microphone? Are you recording
sound?
IVAN
Come on. We take him back to
Seryosha for questioning.
Ivan grabs the man’s arm to pull him up.
IGOR
NO! I must feed the animals.
VASSILI
Fuck that! We’re not dragging him
all the way back there. I’ll
question him here.
IVAN
It’s not safe here, Vasya.
VASSILI
Shit, Vanya, I’m in charge here!
Fucking do what I tell you.
IGOR
(to himself)
I must feed the animals.
CAMERA TURNS OFF and SCREEN GOES BLACK.
22

INT. WORKSHOP/MENAGERIE - AFTERNOON
The camera turns on again. It is on its tripod carefully
framing Igor sitting on his crate, his bleeding knee
hastily bound, caged animals in the background.
VASSILI
- a Russian squad. They were still
here last night.
IGOR
I just feed the animals.
VASSILI
BULLSHIT!

22

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

30.

IGOR
I just feed the animals.
Vassili shakes his head and reaches for his belt.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Vasya. Permit me. I have experience
in.. interviews...
Vassili is surprised by Dimitri’s interruption.
VASSILI
Interviews!? This I want to see.
He steps back and Dimitri appears from behind the camera. He
glances back at the lens self-consciously and positions
himself in the frame in front of Igor.
DIMITRI
Igor. What’s going on here? In the
village? Where has everybody gone?
IGOR
All dead. Or run away. Only I am
here now. I could not go.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Why not?
IGOR
(rolling his eyes)
Then there would be no-one to feed
the animals, of course!
DIMITRI’S VOICE
You say the Germans ran away. What
were they running from?
Igor turns away from Dimitri and peers into the camera-lens
with distracted, half-sane eyes.
IGOR
Why do you have the camera? I’ve
never seen a camera like that
before. Is it running?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Igor. What were they running from?
IGOR
... From the dead ones, of course.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Dead ones. Why would they run away
from the dead.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

31.

IGOR
(suddenly animated)
Frankenstein! He makes them alive
again. For the Army. He makes them
stronger. Wilder. He is a great
man. A God! He has defeated death!
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Where is he now, Igor? Where is
Frankenstein now?
Igor just grins and stares into the lens again.
Vassili steps forward, half-blocking the shot.
VASSILI
What the fuck are you up to, you
Jewboy creep?! We want to know
about Tiger Bear three-oh-three.
Who gives a fuck about this
Frankenstein?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Comrade. There was obviously some
sort of secret project going on
here. Tiger Bear must have been
sent here for that very reason.
That would explain why we knew
nothing about them. I’m betting
that if we can find this
Frankenstein, we’ll also find the
missing squad.
VASSILI
Well, that’s fucking fascinating,
comrade. Now get the fuck back
behind your camera. We’ve wasted
enough time.
Vassili produces a knife and holds it up in front of Igor.
IGOR
What are you doing?
VASSILI
Where are the Russians?
IGOR
I... I cannot..!
Vassili grabs one of Igor’s hands and raises it, putting the
blade to his little finger.
VASSILI
Where?
IGOR
N-NO!

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

32.

Vassili cuts Igor’s little finger off. Igor screams.
IGOR (CONT’D)
NOOOO! You hurt me. You hurt me.
VASSILI
I’ll cut your fucking dick off
next. Where are the Russians?
IGOR
Maybe I can... If I take you there,
will you not hurt me anymore?
VASSILI
If you take me, you’ll never have
to worry about getting hurt ever
again.
Igor nods as he inspects his bleeding stump.
IGOR
.. Thankyou...
Vassili steps away and leans close to the lens, grinning
significantly into the camera.
CUT TO:
23

EXT. MINE - LATE AFTERNOON

23

We are suddenly in the middle of the mine-complex. Dimitri is
behind Vassili who has his gun trained on Igor hobbling along
at the front. Ivan is limping behind us.
The camera warily scans the yawning, dark caves that once
were factory buildings, now in ruins. Dimitri evidently has
the nasty feeling that they are being watched.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Vasya. Do you think this is wise?
There may be more of the sort we
met in the church. More “Dead
Ones”.
VASSILI
Don’t you ever shut up, Shit-forBrains, you’re worse than my wife.
Igor stops at the main entrance to the mine itself and looks
back at them.
VASSILI (CONT’D)
How far?
IGOR
Not far. Down there.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

33.

He points to a narrow passageway that slopes down into
darkness.
The camera moves to shoot down the gloomy tunnel, adjusting
focus, but seeing nothing.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
(sceptical)
The Russian soldiers are down
there?
IGOR
Yes. They are safe. You’ll see.
Safe and sound.
Ivan and Alexei have already trotted forward to take up
positions on either side of the tunnel entrance.
Ivan looks over at Vassili and shrugs - he can’t see anything
threatening.
VASSILI
(to Igor)
After you.
Igor begins to hobble down the tunnel, the dark, moss-covered
walls receding into shadows. He begins to WHISTLE some German
folk-song. Vassili follows, his gun pointing at Igor’s back.
The tunnel begins to branch and re-branch, corridors shooting
off at all angles. Dimitri’s camera pans dizzyingly this way
and that, suspiciously peering down the side-passages.
Igor pauses at an intersection and looks this way and that,
evidently uncertain of the way.
Then he points and Vassili and the camera turn to where he is
pointing. It is another dark passage, the same as all the
others.
When the camera pans back to Igor - he has gone.
VASSILI (CONT’D)
(noticing too)
Hey, where the That is when the wall behind Vassili comes alive.
An undead creature emerges, nearly perfectly camouflaged, its
body covered in moss and fungus. We can see the staples and
stitching holding together the different pieces of corpse
that have been used in its creation. It is wearing shreds of
German uniform.
Its hands have been replaced with pointed metal hooks. It
hacks down at Vassili, but he instinctively wards off the

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

34.

blow with his wristwatch-armoured arm. His gun, however, is
knocked from his grasp.
IVAN
Get out of the fucking way!
Dimitri’s camera swivels to show Ivan and Alexei raising
their weapons to shoot. The camera scoots between them as
they open fire, the noise deafening.
We have not gone far back the way we came when the corridor
is blocked by another monster, its arms ending in long
machetes. It raises an arm to hack at Dimitri who SCREAMS.
A rifle with a bayonet suddenly appears, the blade embedding
itself in the head of the creature. The trigger is pulled
again and again until the thing’s head is a bloody ruin.
The camera swings back past Ivan who has saved us to see
Alexei and Vassili finishing off the monster with the hooks
which has collapsed to the floor and is feebly trying to
escape.
Ivan appears, reloading his gun but - he is suddenly grabbed by a pair of extendable mechanical
claws that pull him suddenly back into the semi-darkness
where another creature is waiting.
It brings Ivan to its “head” which is nothing more a set of
serated mechanical jaws which shut suddenly with a CRUNCH,
partially crushing Ivan’s head, helmet and all.
The thing advances towards us and Dimitri backs away, but
then falls over the other monster. A moment of pandemonium,
then we can see the creature snap its jaws open again,
allowing Ivan to slump in front of us.
We are helpless as it advances, but Ivan, somehow still
conscious, is scrabbling at his belt. He produces a grenade
and holds it up.
Vassili appears and grabs the grenade, primes it and shoves
it between the metal jaws of the monster.
VASSILI
RUN!!
He and Alexei bend to grab Ivan, but we are not waiting. The
camera´s image turns upside-down and (we glimpse the hookmonster still weakly trying to stand) we run. A moment later BOOM! The staccato, upside-down image is overwhelmed by dust
and light.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

24

EXT. STREETS OF VILLAGE - LATE AFTERNOON

35.

24

The image jerks back and forth, badly over-exposed, swinging
wildly across the cobbled street. We hear PANICKED PANTING
and GROANING.
We glimpse Ivan being carried by Vassili and Alexei, blood
streaming from under his twisted helmet. He is not screaming
anymore, but conscious and trying to suppress his agony.
Blood spatters the lens as they run.
CAMERA RUNS OUT and the SCREEN GOES WHITE.
25

INT. CHURCH - LATE AFTERNOON

25

We’re back inside the gloomy church. The camera is still
moving erratically, Dimitri not yet recovered from the shock.
He pans over the worried faces of Sacha and Vassili and ends
up on Sergei bent over Ivan, closely inspecting the moaning
man’s helmet-encased head.
Ivan is lying on a partially-wrecked operating-table that has
been recovered from the destroyed remains of the lab. Blood
rolls patiently along the sides of Ivan’s grimacing face.
IVAN
(through gritted teeth)
Get it off. Get it off.
SERGEI
No, Vanja. I don’t think that’s a
good idea.
IVAN
Please.
SERGEI
Just keep breathing, my friend. I’m
not giving up on you yet.
Vassili storms into shot, pushing Dimitri so that he falls.
VASSILI
Leave him, he’s finished. We’re
getting out of here.
SERGEI
Get back to your post. You’re
supposed to be keeping watch.
VASSILI
Fuck you. Those things. They
appeared out of nowhere. They could
be all around us and we wouldn’t
know.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

36.

Vassili draws his knife.
VASSILI (CONT’D)
Now get out of the way. I’ll finish
him off.
Vassili shoves Sergei aside and is about to slit Ivan’s
throat when the big Uzbeki slaps the knife from his hand and
then clubs him across the ear so hard that the handsome
Russian is sent flying.
IVAN
I fucking decide when I’m finished,
Goat-Cunt. And who finishes me off.
And it won’t be you!
The effort has its toll on Ivan, who falls back onto the
stretcher, fresh blood coursing from under the helmet. Sergei
and Sacha move forward and block our view.
Dimitri regains his feet and moves round the men until Ivan
is once more visible.
IVAN (CONT’D)
Where’s... Where’s that freak?
SERGEI
Who? Dima?
IVAN
(despite his pain, he has
to laugh)
No!.. You idiot... The tramp.
Fucker.. Set us up.. Trap.
SERGEI
(to Vassili on the floor)
You fucking idiot! This is your
fault. I told you to bring a
captive back here.
Vassili rises to his feet, one ear bloody. He grabs Sacha’s
fur hat from his head and uses it to wipe his face. He is not
grudging of Ivan’s attack. Instead VASSILI
Wait til I get my hands on that
fucking Fritzy. I’ll cut his hairy
face off, slice by slice, like a
sausage. And I’ll make him eat it.
Ivan lies back and closes his eyes and tries to calm his
breathing.
SERGEI
That’s it, Good. Just breathe.
Sleep.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

37.

IVAN
(trembling violently)
No... No... Stay awake... Stay
awake...
Sergei steps back and wipes his hands on his trousers,
looking down sadly. Sacha appears with a blanket and Vassili
helps him spread it over the dying man, tucking it under his
chin.
SACHA
Seryosha? M-maybe you should t-try
the radio ag-g-gSERGEI
Hmph. Yes, okay. But it’s useless,
you know. It’s been days since I’ve
got a peep out of the damn thing.
Sacha points up at the metal structure of the gantry of the
wrecked elevator.
SACHA
And if we use the t-t-t-tower?
SERGEI
(looking up)
That’s not a bad idea...
The camera follows Sergei as he moves away from the operatingtable towards Alexei, who is standing at the door, peering
out at the early evening. All is still outside.
Sergei joins him, lighting a cigarette. He removes the silver
locket from around his throat and opens it to look at the
tiny photo of his wife and child for a moment, then he snaps
it shut and turns towards us.
SERGEI (CONT’D)
Dima, you are an educated man. What
do you think is going on here?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
I’m.. not sure. I think we have
stumbled on a new Nazi weapon.
SERGEI
Only Nazi’s would think of
something like this. Sewing dead
people together; giving them knives
for hands. It’s insane.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Or brilliant. Sometimes the two are
very close together.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

38.

SERGEI
If you say so. I’m going to try the
radio again.
Sergei tosses the cigarette-butt out of the door and
disappears past us and we are left with Alexei’s silhouette
scanning the darkening horizon.
CUT TO:
26

INT. CHURCH - DUSK

26

A juicy piece of rabbit-carcass. Dimitri is holding it,
showing it to the camera before it disappears and we hear him
MOANING with pleasure at its deliciousness.
We pan up to see Vassili and Alexei, around the fire,
likewise enjoying the food. All is silent except for the
sound of CHEWING and Ivan’s laboured, rhythmic grunting in
the background.
At the end of the pan we reveal Sergei beside the big Uzbeki,
inserting little pieces of pre-chewed rabbit into Ivan’s
mouth. Ivan moans in time to his chews(in pain or pleasure it
is hard to say), fresh blood dripping from under his crushed
helmet.
At the doorway, Sacha is on guard-duty. We join him.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Sacha. All quiet out there?
SACHA
I keep seeing shadows moving and I
wonder if it’s my eyes, but if it’s
them, they don’t come near.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Because they fear you, Comrade
Sacha.
The pimply-faced boy grins sardonically.
SACHA
They are right to. I’m a survivor.
CUT TO:
27

INT. CHURCH - NIGHT

27

We are looking at Dimitri’s backpack, lenses and film-cans
lying around it and some gleaming equipment inside. Dimitri’s
hand appears to pull the backpack shut. There is the flicker
of firelight playing over everything.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

39.

VASSILI (O.S.)
- so where are the fucking bodies?
SERGEI (O.S.)
It looks like they are being taken
by this Frankenstein VASSILI (O.S.)
But all those things we’ve seen are
Fritzies.
SERGEI (O.S.)
You can’t say that. A leg is a leg VASSILI (O.S.)
But the uniforms, the helmets SERGEI (O.S.)
Doesn’t mean a thing. He’s not
going to dress his troops in the
enemy VASSILI (O.S.)
Bullshit!
While this argument is taking place, the camera pans around
the church, passing the fire where Sacha is tending to a
rabbit on a spit, - ending up at Ivan, who is still alive, semi-conscious,
grunting to himself, clutching his carved wooden amulet to
his chest.
In the background, Sergei and Vassili appear.
SERGEI
It’s enough! We’ll wait for first
light, then we’ll try again to find
a trace of our boys.
VASSILI
They’re dead! They’re dead, they
must be! And we will be too, if we
hang around here any longer.
SACHA (O.S.)
(suddenly piping up)
My grandfather fought the Fritzies
in the First War...
The camera pans round to Sacha.
SACHA (CONT’D)
You know, he always t-told us how
he was shot and lay wounded in N-nno-M-man’s Land. Couldn’t move,
couldn’t speak. Seventeen hours.
But his squad, they came and got
(MORE)

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

40.

SACHA (CONT’D)
him. They didn’t g-give up on him
and that’s why I’m here to k-k-kill
more Fritzies today.

DIMITRI’S VOICE
Well said, comrade!
Sacha spears a look of contempt at the camera.
SACHA
He said that was the d-difference
between us and the F-fritzies. It’s
why they can never b-beat us.
VASSILI (O.S.)
Oh for fuck’s sake! How much
bullshit propaganda do I have to BANG! A gunshot rings out.
Everyone grabs their gun and Dimitri retreats and turns to
see Alexei at the door, peering down his gunsights at
something out in the dark night. He fires again.
GERMAN VOICES
Nicht schiessen! Wir übergeben! Wir
sind menschlich! Wir sind
menschlich!
Dimitri cautiously advances to try and get a better view.
SERGEI
(to Alexei)
Hold your fire.
Sergei nods to Vassili and Sacha and they crouch-run out of
the church and into the night.
Now Dimitri is able to see a little way outside the door and
makes out a white blur that resolves itself into a dirty
white bedsheet on a stick.
The carrier of the stick, a twelve-year old boy (HANS) in a
ragged HITLER YOUTH uniform leads two other German soldiers
carrying a heavily-bleeding fourth into the church, prodded
suspiciously by Sacha and Vassili.
SERGEI (CONT’D)
Hands in the air! Now!
The dying German is laid hurriedly on the floor and the two
German soldiers raise their hands. One is a trembling whitehaired old man, a veteran of the First War (FRITZ) and the
other is short and slender, smothered in a huge great coat.
Sharp-eyed, Vassili suddenly steps forward and tears the cap
from the slim soldier, revealing medium-length hair.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

41.

SACHA
(unable to control his
surprise)
That’s a girl!
SERGEI
Move back there! By that wall!
The Germans just look at him, hands raised, scared.
Meanwhile, the soldier on the floor begins to cough up
lungfuls of blood.
SERGEI (CONT’D)
BY THE WALL! NOW!
The female German, EVA, says something in German to the
other two and they back up to the wall.
Vassili bends over the dying German on the floor and sticks
his bayonet into him, finishing him off.
SERGEI (CONT’D)
Where is everyone?
The Germans stare at him. The veteran, Fritz, looks like he
might be a bit deaf. Hans is just scared, dirty and staring
with round eyes.
SERGEI (CONT’D)
WHERE ARE THE RUSSIANS?
EVA
(in halting words)
Please - I speak little English SERGEI
Where are the Russians?
EVA
You are Russian, no?
SERGEI
There were other Russians here.
Yesterday.
EVA
Yesterday? I don’t know. We’ve been
hiding.
SERGEI
Just you four?
EVA
Everyone else was killed. Or ran.
It was a massacre.
SERGEI
Who killed them?

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

42.

EVA
The undead ones, the
Frankensteins. Listen. The gunshots. Your firelight. We must
hide before they come looking DIMITRI’S VOICE
Where do they come from?
SERGEI
Please, Dima. Just fucking leave
this to me.
(to Eva)
How many of those things are there?
EVA
We don’t know. He keeps making
more. If they kill you, they use
your body to make a new one. But we
must hide! Please!
Sergei looks at the other Russians.
SERGEI
What do you think? Shoot them?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
No! We should question them
properly first.
Eva has heard this and speaks in German to Hans and Fritz.
Fritz answers in rapid German, then laughs bitterly.
SERGEI
What did he say?
EVA
Fritz says is OK if you shoot
him. He rather be shot by real
man than rip apart by those
things out there.
Sacha laughs at this and Hans, the boy, smiles back.
VASSILI
Let’s just shoot them two and keep
the girl.
The other Russians nod at the wisdom of this.
But Eva suddenly drops her hands and yanks her coat open to
reveal a nurse’s uniform underneath.
EVA
No! I am trained nurse. I can help
your friend.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

43.

She points out of frame and the camera follows her gesture to
Ivan lying on the burnt operating-table.
CUT TO:
28

INT.

CHURCH - LATER

28

A pan of water is boiling over the small fire. Some grimylooking surgical implements, picked from among the ashes of
the lab, are thrown into the water. There is a bit of blurry
camera adjustment and then we see - Eva kneeling beside the fire. She tears some of the white
flag into bandages. (In the background, the other Russians
are either keeping watch (Sacha), comforting Ivan (Sergei) or
suspiciously guarding the other two Germans (Vassili and
Alexei).
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Say that again; I was not ready.
Eva looks up at the camera from her work, confused.
EVA
What?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
About Frankenstein. Where he is
now. This used to be his lab,
right?
EVA
Yes. But it was too small and too open - too easy to find.
Vassili appears in the background, eyeing the young woman
lasciviously. When he notices that the camera is on, he grabs
his crotch and thrusts his hips at us.
Eva feels his presence and turns towards him, startled.
Vassili just laughs.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Don’t worry about him. Tell me
where Frankenstein went. Eva!
EVA
(turning back to us)
What? The mine. He’s down the
mine.
SERGEI
But why didn’t you leave before
now? We got in easily enough...
Eva laughs humourlessly and stares into the lens.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

44.

EVA
Yes, you got in. But have you tried
to get out? Three days ago, we try
to get out. They waiting for us. In
trees, in the ground. They kill
many. After that we hide.
Eva turns back to the pan and deftly hooks out the tools and
gathers them in a piece of cloth and stands.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Wait EVA
I am ready to help your comrade
now.
She turns and walks towards where Ivan is lying. Vassili
follows her closely.
CUT TO:
29

INT. CHURCH - A LITTLE LATER

29

The camera is on the tripod in a carefully set shot showing
Ivan lying unconscious on the table in MEDIUM CLOSE. Eva
bends into frame and starts wiping the blood from Ivan’s face
so she can better see the damage under the helmet.
As she gently tugs at one edge of the crumpled helmet, she
glances into the camera, her face betraying her lack of hope
for Ivan who - suddenly opens his eyes and coughs, spraying gobbets of
blood and snot right into the lens.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Oh damn!
IVAN
My dorje! Where’s my dorje?
The camera pans quickly round and up to show Dimitri in closeup. He produces a cloth and sets about cleaning the lens.
IVAN (O.S.) (CONT’D)
My dorje!
SACHA (O.S.)
Here it is, Vanya. You must have
dropped it.
Behind Dimitri, up in the darkness of the rafters of the
church roof, we spot MOVEMENT. Something with long, spindly
limbs is up there, but the image is out of focus and no-one
notices.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

45.

The camera pans back round and the lens-mount rotated to show
a somewhat WIDER view of Ivan, Eva and Sacha handing the
wounded Uzbeki his wooden amulet which he clutches to his
chest.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Primitive superstition. I cannot
condone SACHA
So shoot him. B-b-but l-let’s gDIMITRI’S VOICE
Be quiet, Sacha. You’re supposed to
be on guard, aren’t you?
Sergei appears and nods Sacha back towards the door.
SERGEI
(to Eva)
Well? Can you get it off?
EVA
(doubtful)
I don’t know.
SERGEI
Listen. You get the helmet off our
comrade and we’ll let you live.
Deal?
EVA
I.. I can try.
IVAN
Just.. fucking.. do it!
Eva bends forward once more, places her hands on either side
of the helmet and grips the rim. Ivan bites down on his
agony, refusing to cry out.
But she hesitates still. Vassili nudges her from behind.
VASSILI
You heard him, bitch! Get on with
it!
Eva mutters a silent prayer to herself then tugs at the
helmet and it comes away with surprising ease, accompanied by
a hideous SLURPING SUCKING NOISE.
Eva stumbles back a pace, knocking into Vassili. She is left
holding a dented metal bowl filled with Ivan’s brains and
skull fragments.
Ivan is gurgling and twitching, the top half of his head
missing.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

46.

Everybody stares at the helmet in shock.
But then Vassili steps forward and knocks the helmet flying
from Eva’s hands.
VASSILI (CONT’D)
Well, that was a waste of time.
He grabs her and throws her back onto the floor out of frame
and pulls his belt loose.
EVA (O.S.)
Please!! We have to work together.
Don’t you see? It does not matter
if we are Nazi or Red, we’re all
human!
VASSILI
Oh shut up, Nazi lesbian whore!
SACHA (O.S.)
They’re coming!
Dimitri’s camera pans wildly as Sacha starts FIRING. It ends
up pointing at Alexei in MEDIUM. He opens his mouth and ALEXEI
SERYOSHAAAAAAHHHHHH!!!
Blood suddenly vomits from his mouth and the tip of a drill
appears, extending from between his gaping teeth.
Only now do we see that the spindly-limbed creature
(MOSQUITO) that we glimpsed up in the rafters has clamped
onto the sniper’s back and is drilling through his head with
a stinger-like drill that has been fitted to its gas-mask
face.
The air is filled with the sound of GUNFIRE and SHOUTING.
A moment of wild movement as Dimitri scrambles away from the
Mosquito. It stands over Alexei’s body on long, stilt-like
limbs, its body shaking as bullets tear into it. The church
is full of smoke and dust, but we can see the shadows of
other Frankensteins moving through the chaos.
Suddenly, the camera is knocked from Dimitri’s grasp and
falls to the floor, cracking the lens. We get an upside-down
view of another monster with clamp-like hands.
It has grabbed hold of Dimitri’s leg and is dragging him
away. Dimitri kicks and screams and grabs things, but to no
avail; the hulking creature is far too strong.
Sergei appears with his bayonet and hacks at the arm holding
Dimitri until it falls to the floor, releasing the cameraman
who gets to his knees and scrabbles towards the camera, still
dragging the creature’s arm behind him.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

47.

The camera is grabbed by Dimitri as he runs away from the
fighting towards where the Germans, Hans and Fritz, are
cowering. We hear a MASSIVE BOOM as someone uses a grenade.
Smoke, dust, fire, chaos.
A HUGE UGLY Frankenstein zombot rears up out of the smoke,
half of it’s dead flesh hanging from it’s face, torn away by
shrapnel along with one arm.
Despite its blindness, it sets about wreaking havoc, throwing
operating-tables, benches, equipment and men left and right
in a mindless frenzy of destruction.
Dimitri’s backpack is ripped open, flying to land at our
feet.
Then a stream of bullets tear through the monster’s torso and
it disappears into the smoke and darkness once more.
Sacha is backing up towards us as more shadows appear at the
entrance to the church. More monsters!
Sergei (radio-set over his shoulder) appears beside Hans and
Fritz. He tosses a grenade through the entrance. There is an
ALMIGHTY EXPLOSION and everything shakes from the concussion.
HANS
Sir! Sir! Fritz knows way out! This
way!
SERGEI
Vasja! Sacha! To me!
HANS
This way!
Dimitri grabs his torn backpack of equipment and follows as
Hans leads them into the chamber housing the generator. On
the other side is a winding staircase leading down into
darkness.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Down there?
Fritz does not wait, but hurries downward. As we hesitate,
Sergei, Vassili and Sacha, still shooting back the way they
came, follow.
So Dimitri reluctantly follows, starting down just behind
Hans - who suddenly stops and turns, aghast.
HANS
EVA!

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

48.

DIMITRI’S VOICE
Forget her. Keep moving.
But Hans pushes past us and heads back up the stairs, the
camera panning to watch him disappear into the smoke and
darkness at the top.
HANS (O.S.)
EVA!
SERGEI (O.S.)
Dima! Come on!
We are roughly grabbed and swerve round to see Sergei holding
Dimitri’s arm, tugging him down the steps.
Some of the soldiers have got torches, beams of light crisscrossing in the darkness below.
SERGEI (CONT’D)
Stop fucking filming, you idiot,
and run!
Sergei pulls a grenade from his belt and throws it over
Dimitri’s head, back up the staircase.
SERGEI (CONT’D)
That’s my last one.
An ENORMOUS EXPLOSION overwhelms the microphone. Dust and
rubble fly. The camera is suddenly swallowed by absolute
darkness.
30

INT. UNDERGROUND STAIRCASE - NIGHT

30

Pitch black. SILENCE stretches. But the camera is still
running because we can hear RUBBLE still settling, COUGHING
and GROANING.
Then, incongruously:
RADIO VOICE
(crackly and distant)
- repeat, this is Tiger Bear three
oh three. We are trapped; we need
reinforcements. Does anyone read
me? Over.
After a moment, we hear MOVEMENT, then WHIRRING and a dynamotorch flickers to life, its beam illuminating the dust-filled
air and the wreckage half-filling the staircase.
Also the survivors: Sacha, Vassili and the old German
veteran, Fritz. They all look scared, dirty, bloody from
minor wounds.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

49.

RADIO VOICE (CONT’D)
We are trapped. We can’t hold out
for much longer. Our position is
51/17/28N. 13/22/04E. Do you read
me? Over.
Sergei, holding the torch, stumbles to his feet as the beam
of light searches out and finds the source of the crackly
Radio Voice:
Dimitri’s torn backpack.
RADIO VOICE (CONT’D)
I repeat, this is Tiger Bear three
oh three. We are trapped Sergei kneels and tears the backpack open and a small reel-toreel tape-recorder falls out. The Radio Voice begins to wind
down, slowing to a stop. Sergei inspects the machine.
RADIO VOICE (CONT’D)
Weeee neeeeeed reeeeeeee...
SERGEI
Well, fuck me in the arse!
Dimitri appears, extending a hand towards Sergei.
DIMITRI
Comrade. Seryosha. Let me Sergei spins round and punches Dimitri in the face, sending
him sprawling, then quickly roots around in the backpack,
tossing aside the bag of exposed and unexposed film and
lenses until he finds another small and heavy machine.
Sergei throws it down and advances on Dimitri, drawing his
pistol and raising it to point between Dimitri’s eyes. (More
torch beams whirr to life.)
VASSILI
What the fuck’s going on?
SERGEI
You should ask Comrade Dima?
VASSILI
What?
SERGEI
(to Dimitri)
Tell them. Before I blow your
brains out.
DIMITRI
You don’t understand.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

50.

SERGEI
Tell them!
Sacha and Vassili get to their feet and shine their torches
at the kneeling Dimitri who is nursing his bloody nose. He
looks down at the steps, avoiding looking at the others.
DIMITRI
(in a small voice)
There is no Tiger Bear three oh
three.
VASSILI
(shaking his head in
disbelief)
I don’t get it.
SERGEI
(indicating the machine on
the stairs)
It’s a radio jammer. I couldn’t
understand why we weren’t getting
any signal. That is why. Our
comrade here was blocking us,
cutting us off from Mother.
SACHA
And I was carrying the fucking
thing!
SERGEI
(indicating the now silent
tape-machine)
And that’s some sort of tapemachine. He could use it to
transmit the message from his pack
to the radio and..
VASSILI
(adding it up)
Lead us here.. So there’s...
SACHA
No Tiger Bear. No Russian soldiers
needing our help.
Vassili suddenly leaps towards Dimitri, knocking him
backwards.
VASSILI
Fucking bastard!!
Dimitri receives a few hefty punches and kicks from Vassili
before Sergei pulls him back.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

51.

SERGEI
Later, Vasje! Don’t worry, he’ll
get his, but first I want to hear
why?
VASSILI
Okay. That’s true. We would all
like to know that. Then we kill him
and get the fuck out of here.
Dimitri slowly raises his head and looks at the others.
DIMITRI
No. We’re not going anywhere.
SERGEI
We’ll follow this Fritzy. He knows
a way out DIMITRI
You don’t understand. We’re not
leaving.. That’s an order.
VASSILI
An order! I’m going to cut his
balls off!
He starts to pull his knife. But Dimitri is also pulling
something from his pocket... A document.
He holds it out to Sergei.
DIMITRI
Here! Here, read this! I am a full
captain. Your superior officer.
Sergei takes the document and studies it.
DIMITRI (CONT’D)
My superiors have a list of every
man in this squad’s family and
loved ones. If something happens to
me; if you do not cooperate, the
next time you see them will be in a
gulag.
The men cannot believe their ears. Vassili manages to kick
him, despite Sergei holding him back. But SERGEI
He’s right. He’s in charge.
VASSILI
Seryosha! You can’t SERGEI
I SAID HE’S IN CHARGE!!

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

52.

Sudden silence.
SERGEI(CONT’D)
(quietly)
And I’ll shoot any man who lifts a
finger against him. Is that clear?
The other two slowly drop their defiant gazes from Sergei.
Dimitri gets up and goes to retrieve the camera.
SERGEI (CONT’D)
I know exactly what the Sarge would
have said if he were here. He’d say
we were just a bunch of boys or
we’d understand. You have to
respect the chain of command.
Otherwise, we’re just a... band of
cut-throats.
The camera is back on Dimitri’s shoulder.
SERGEI (CONT’D)
With your permission, Captain, I’d
like to understand. Why could you
not just have told us? Why the
trick?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
This is a top secret mission. The
Buro was afraid there might be a
leak.
SERGEI
So you let us come unprepared.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
No. We did not know the exact
nature of the weapon Frankenstein
was working on. My orders were just
to capture or kill him.
SERGEI
Capture? What does the glorious
Soviet Union want with this madman?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
As you say, Sergei, we have to
respect the chain of command.
SERGEI
Is there even film in that camera?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Oh yes. The film is real. I must
film everything for our scientists
just in case we cannot take him
alive.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

53.

The camera pans around the three Russians who eye us with
varying levels of hatred and finds the old German, Fritz, who
has been sitting quietly watching the crazy Russians with
bemusement.
DIMITRI’S VOICE (CONT’D)
Hey you, Fritz! We’re going to
Frankenstein’s lab and you’re
leading us there. Which way?
The old man is startled to be addressed. He tentatively
points down into the darkness of the staircase.
DIMITRI’S VOICE (CONT’D)
Sacha! Grab the lenses and the
film. Leave everything RUN OUT, SCREEN GOES WHITE.
31

INT. STAIRCASE - LATER

31

The camera turns on to show the men descending the long
staircase that winds slowly down.
A sign on the wall attracts our attention, but it is too dark
to see.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Seryosha? Can you shine your torch
on this?
SERGEI
I have a better idea.
Sergei approaches and produces a roll of tape from one of his
pockets and there is some blurry confusion as a torch is
fixed onto the top of the camera so that its light points in
the same direction as the lens.
Dimitri swings the camera back and forth to test the
construction.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Thankyou, Comrade. That’s much
better.
SERGEI
Don’t mention it. What does it say?
The camera focuses on the typically Germanic Gothic text on
the sign featuring words like “VERBOTEN” and “LEBENSGEFAHR”.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Just a warning.. Seryosha?
Sergei stops and looks into the camera.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

54.

DIMITRI’S VOICE (CONT’D)
I wanted to thank you. You saved my
life back there.
Sergei looks into the lens a moment longer, then shrugs.
SERGEI
Need to keep you alive, Dima.
Otherwise, how will I become a
famous movie-star?
CUT TO:
32

INT. FOOT OF THE ELEVATOR-SHAFT - NIGHT

32

The camera is turned on to reveal a mess of twisted metal, a
cage filled with the broken and decomposing corpses of a
group of German soldiers, nurses and white-coated scientists.
They are lying inside the elevator that linked the church
above with the mine-tunnel.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
This is the lift up to the church.
SERGEI (O.S.)
What a mess. If it’s a Nazi weapon,
it’s turned on its master. That is
not so brilliant, hm Dima?
Dimitri says nothing. He notices a bloody trail leading away
from the elevator along a set of narrow-guage railway tracks.
We follow the trail until we arrive at a pair of mis-matched
monster’s legs that lie still on the dirt-floor, evidently
having been trying to go somewhere before they ran out of
steam.
The camera registers every detail of the smashed pelvis and
stump of spine. The top half of the thing is nowhere to be
seen.
As the others join us, the camera tilts up, its light
temporarily blinding Fritz who shields his eyes.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
You used to work in the mine,
right? Can you lead us to the main
mine-workings?
Fritz points at the tracks and mutters something back.
FRITZ
Easy. Just follow tracks.
Sergei appears and pulls at the camera.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

55.

SERGEI
Dima. You seriously want us to go
there? To Frankenstein’s base? It’s
suicide.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Nonsense. These things are unarmed
or only with simple industrial
tools. We keep our eyes open, move
carefully and quietly. If we see
one, we concentrate our fire on its
head. That seems to work fine.
VASSILI
What do you mean, “our fire”? I
haven’t seen you shoot anything but
film, you fucking DIMITRI’S VOICE
Look. There is no way out of this
place, but to go on. We have to
stop this thing at its source.
SERGEI
And when we make it into this base,
what do we do? Blow it up?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Sure. But only after we’ve found
and captured Frankenstein.
SERGEI
Or killed. Captured or killed, you
said.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Yes. But preferably captured.
The camera swings round to point its light ahead, the railway
tracks disappearing into the pitch darkness.
DIMITRI’S VOICE (CONT’D)
Right Comrades, let’s move!
CUT TO:
33

INT. TUNNEL - NIGHT

33

The surviving members of the squad are walking cautiously
down the tunnel, following the tracks of the narrow-guage
railway.
Up ahead, Fritz is leading the way. He pauses and looks round
at us hanging back.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

56.

SERGEI
Keep going, hooligan!
(to the Russians)
If anything comes out of the walls
again, I want time to react.
But Fritz does not move and as we draw closer, we see why.
We have arrived at a fork in the tracks, a set disappearing
down two tunnels branching away in front of us.
Fritz shakes his head miserably. Sergei comes up to him and
gives him a shove.
SERGEI (CONT’D)
Which way? Come on, which way?
FRITZ
Cannot remember. So long ago SERGEI
Fuck that! If you don’t want a
bullet in your brain...
But Fritz just shakes his head again and begins to cry,
putting his face in his hands.
FRITZ
Nein-nein. Ich kan nicht...
SACHA (O.S.)
Hey! I heard something!
Camera pans round to where Sacha is pointing down the left
hand tunnel.
Torches are wound and pointed and we see movement low to the
ground.
Dimitri and the others cautiously move forward until we see - a legless, one-armed monster that is patiently reaching out
with its claw and dragging itself forward a little way, then
reaching out again. Slowly, slowly, it makes progress.
Vassili steps toward it, gun ready to blow it to pieces.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
No! Leave it. It can’t hurt us.
Those legs we found near the lift
must have belonged to it.
The thing ignores them. It just drags itself on, following
the tracks.
SACHA
What’s it doing?

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

57.

DIMITRI’S VOICE
It’s following orders. What it has
been conditioned to do. Returning
to base.
SERGEI
It’s just a soldier. Like us.
The others watch as it crawls slowly on down the tunnel. The
camera examines it closely, paying particular attention to
the aeriel-like metal wire protruding from behind its ear.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Well, we know which way to go now,
at least.
The camera swings up to point down the tunnel.
CUT TO:
34

INT. TUNNEL OUTSIDE CHAMBER - LATER

34

The tunnel is different, less like a mine and more like the
basement of an industrial complex. But still there are the
tracks running down it and, ahead of us, the doorway to a
large, dimly-lit chamber.
VASSILI
At last we’re getting somewhere.
Sergei waves to Vassili and Sacha to take up defensive
positions on either side of the door, then he cautiously
enters the chamber.
Vassili waves at Fritz to enter, then us.
35

INT. CHAMBER - CONTINUOUS

35

The camera enters the chamber which has some weak electric
lights hanging from the walls. The chamber is vast, again
dominated by the rusting hulks of industrial machinery. In
one corner is a tightly winding staircase heading up into the
darkness and in the middle the mouth of a chute ends in a
pile of something hard to distinguish.
A Frankenstein monster appears and everyone prepares to fire.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Wait.
The monster is a crude, old-fashioned type with no mechanical
additions to its corpse-made body. It is carrying a torn-off
leg. It ignores them as it carries the limb to the opposite
wall where a large square opening yawns covered by hanging
rotting rubber strips.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

58.

As they watch the creature pushes the leg through the
rubberized curtain. We hear it ROLLING down a metal chute.
The creature turns and heads back to the pile at the bottom
of the other chute-opening.
The camera pans around, taking in the chamber. Fritz is
saying something in German, pointing to the staircase in the
corner. Sergei listens, then turns to Dimitri.
SERGEI
He remembers this place. He says we
can get out that way.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
That is irrelevant right now. We’ve
got a mission to complete.
The monster has reached the pile, which we can now see is
made up of corpses, mostly German soldiers, but there are
also many body parts which could have belonged to anybody. It
bends down and grabs a foot and pulls, dragging a small
figure from the gory mass - which immediately starts struggling and shouting.
VASSILI
It’s the little Fascist.
It is indeed Hans, covered in gore and blood, but otherwise
healthy.
The monster starts to drag the boy towards the rubber flaps
of the chute-opening in the wall.
GUNSHOTS ring out as Sergei and Sacha shoot at the monster,
blowing its head to smithereens. It slowly collapses.
Fritz hurries over to Hans and kneels beside him, embracing
the boy who is stammering something about Eva.
The camera leaves them, heading over to the wall-chute. There
are puddles of blood and the odd piece of viscera at the base
of the opening. Dimitri’s hand reaches out and pulls some of
the rubber strips aside and we see - a wide metal chute descending a few metres before our view
is blocked by an identical rubber-strip curtain at the foot
of the chute. The sloping floor of the chute is slippery with
blood and slime.
Dimitri’s hand releases the curtain and we pan to see the
others looking at the chute suspiciously. (Bizarrely, at that
moment the legless Dragger-monster appears through the
doorway and starts to make its patient way towards the
chute.)

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

59.

DIMITRI’S VOICE
Sacha. Go down and take a look.
SACHA
What?! Are you crazy?!
SERGEI
I have a better idea. Vasja, get
the boy.
Vassili grabs Hans away from a feebly protesting Fritz and
drags him over to the chute.
VASSILI
In you go.
HANS
Nein!
SERGEI
Hold his feet.
(to Hans)
You can just peep through, then
we’ll drag you back up.
Hans still shakes his head, but then Vassili puts his gun to
the boy’s head and - Hans parts the rubber curtain and reluctantly climbs into
the mouth of the chute.
Vassili hands him a torch, then takes hold of his feet and he
slides down, but he is too short to reach the curtain at the
bottom.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Sacha. You take the boy’s feet and
slide down after him and Vassili
will take your feet. Like a chain.
Sacha looks at Sergei, but just receives a nod, so he does as
he is told, forming the central link of the human chain.
Hans slides down further. He is now able to easily reach the
bottom of the chute.
HANS
(over his shoulder)
It smells really bad.. Please.
Don’t let go.
SACHA
I’ve got you. So long as Vasja’s
got me.
The camera pushes between the black rubber fronds to get a
better view of the chain of hands and feet leading down to

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

60.

the lower curtain. (Vassili looks sourly into the lens and
silently mouths an insult at us.)
Below, Hans pushes first his hands, then his head and
shoulders through the rubber strips HANS
Mein Gott!! It’s.. It’s too..
horrible.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
What do you see?
HANS
I.. can’t...
We see Hans skinny body writhe and spasm and hear him
vomiting on the other side of the curtain.
HANS (CONT’D)
Please. Pull me up. I cannot stand Suddenly, we hear the THROATY ROAR of some sort of motor
starting up below, like a gargantuan lawnmower.
HANS (CONT’D)
Oh my God!
PULLMEUPPULLMEUPPULLMEUP!!!
SACHA
VASJA! PULL!
Too late. The ROARING MOTOR approaches fast and diesel fumes
fill the chute as Hans’s little body once more writhes and
twists and spasms. But not from vomiting this time.
Vassili pulls back suddenly on Sacha’s feet, knocking Dimitri
to the floor.
A moment of blur and madness and shouting and the camera
finally focuses on Sacha, sitting on the floor with the legs
and lower torso (still in its Hitlerjugend shorts) of Hans.
The rest of him has been sliced away.
The horror and shock is still sinking in when a metallic
THUDDING joins the increasingly loud ROAR.
Whatever it is that has made such a mess of Hans is now
CLIMBING UP the chute, hidden behind the rubber curtain.
Sacha comes to his senses and scrambles backwards on his
arse, as everyone cowers back from the chute. (Dimitri keeps
filming, but is paying less attention to framing and focus
than usual.)
The black rubber curtain is suddenly shredded and flying in
all directions like a black snowstorm and diesel fumes churn
the air as -

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

61.

- a huge Frankenstein monster appears from the chute behind
the whirling blade of a fighter-plane nose-cone and
propellor.
There is what was once a German soldier at its heart, but he
has been reinforced by an armoured exoskeleton, has metal
grabbers for hands and a head that once belonged on the front
of a war-plane. The propellor is a spinning blur and exhaust
fumes jet from pipes jutting from its shoulders.
It advances on Sacha who is still on the floor, staring up at
it helplessly.
Sergei steps forward and lets rip with his PPS machine-gun.
SERGEI
HEY! You ugly fucking creep! Over
here!
The bullets ricochet off the thing’s exoskeleton, but it does
turn away from Sacha and advance on Sergei instead.
He fires again, the bullets pinging off the propellor blades,
but then the ammunition is finished and he is left clicking
impotently. He backs away and tosses the gun aside, reaching
for his pistol. But he does not stand a chance.
Sacha, now behind the monster, springs to his feet, pulling
out his bayonet. He leaps up onto the back of the thing and
slices through a fuel-line coiling from a tank to its nosecone head.
Sacha jumps away as the creature turns, feeling for the loose
fuel-line which is pouring diesel everywhere. The propellor
begins to sputter and slow.
Sergei tosses his burning lighter at the monster and it
immediately bursts into flames. It pays no attention to the
fire engulfing it, still trying to re-attach the fuel-line.
SERGEI (CONT’D)
GET DOWN!
The camera falls to the floor as the image temporarily WHITES
OUT and we hear A TERRIFIC EXPLOSION!
When the camera (and the cameraman) has recovered itself, it
shakily takes in the carnage.
The two, metal-frame encased feet of the monster are still
standing where they had been, but the rest of the thing has
been blown to pieces.
Sergei and Sacha appear. Sergei slaps the youngster on the
back.
SERGEI (CONT’D)
Quick thinking.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

62.

VASSILI (O.S.)
What’s German for “Get down”? Oh
well, it’s too late now.
The camera pans round to find Vassili beside Fritz. The old
German veteran is standing, swaying gently back and forth, a
propellor-blade jutting from his head.
Vassili gives Fritz a nudge and the German slowly topples to
the floor.
At that moment, some NOISE from the direction of the chute
attracts everyone’s attention. The camera pans round to see
the Dragger has reached the chute now bereft of its rubber
strips.
It pulls itself over the lip of the chute and slides down,
disappearing from view.
Dimitri winds up the torch fixed to the camera to make the
beam brighter and advances to peer down into the darkened
chamber below. There is little to see - a wagon stands at the
foot of the chute, but the shadows make it impossible to
properly see its contents.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Okay. Let’s go down. We can fix a
rope We hear a MUFFLED THUD and the camera tips over and slides a
little way down the chute, pointing back upside-down towards
Dimitri. We see:
Dimitri is slumped over the edge of the chute, unconscious,
and Sergei is standing over him, returning the pistol with
which he has evidently just hit him to his holster.
SERGEI
So Comrade. I think you can better
continue your secret mission alone.
I’m taking my men up those stairs
and out of this fucking madhouse.
Vassili and Sacha appear at the mouth of the chute beside
Sergei.
VASSILI
(grinning)
Bye-bye, Jew-boy. Sorry, I mean
Captain Jew-boy.
He and Sergei lift Dimitri (who gives a semi-conscious groan)
and push him into the chute.
He and the camera begin to slide down, away from the three
Russians.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

63.

Sacha takes the backpack containing the film and lenses and
tosses it into the chute after us.
SACHA
Don’t forget your precious film.
We slide down and, just as we reach the remains of the lower
curtain, we see the three surviving members of the squad turn
and disappear.
We drop over the edge and land with a SQUELCH in a halffilled coal-wagon waiting at the bottom.
36

INT. CONVEYOR-BELT CHAMBER - CONTINUOUS

36

All we can see are blurred, lurid colours. We hear Dimitri
GROAN again and also a soft, rhythmic RATTLING/SCRAPING noise
from somewhere.
Something moves, causing the camera to shift. We can now see
the Dragger-monster lying amid a glistening pile of limbs and
guts in the coal-wagon. It stares upward, content and
passive; its goal of ending up in this pile achieved.
Dimitri appears, slathered in old blood and grease. He is
holding his head. He tries to rise, but loses his balance and
falls back into the vile bath of viscera. He retches.
DIMITRI
Traitors. Every last one of them..
Traitors.
He climbs shakily to his feet again and scrabbles at the lip
of the chute above him.
DIMITRI (CONT’D)
COMRADES! COME BACK! THIS IS
MUTINY! DON’T YOU REALIZE?!
He listens, but it is obvious that the others are not going
to return.
He tries to get a grip on the chute and pull himself up, but
it is too slippery. He gives up, turns around, sees the
camera and bends to retrieve it.
Suddenly, a Frankenstein monster looms over us!
Dimitri falls backwards in shock, landing amid the guts and
dismembered limbs again.
But the monster ignores him, reaching down and grabbing hold
of the Dragger. It hoists the half-dead thing out of the
wagon and disappears.
The monster returns to the wagon and reaches in again,
pushing amid the offal as its hand searches. It pulls out a

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

64.

leg, which it rejects and tosses back, then it comes up with
Dimitri’s gore-smeared backpack containing his exposed and
unexposed film.
It looks at the bag with dead, dull eyes, momentarily
confused.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Oh no you don’t.
Dimitri’s grabs the bag from the monster’s grip. It does not
react, just reaches down and pulls another body part from the
wagon and leaves us alone once more.
Dimitri stands peering over the edge of the wagon, then down
at his filth-caked hands. He starts to try to wipe them
clean.
The CAMERA RUNS OUT.
37

INT. CONVEYOR-BELT CHAMBER - LATER

37

The camera is turned on. We are now out of the wagon and can
see the source of the RATTLING NOISE we heard.
It is a conveyor-belt moving through a large tunnel, running
off into the distance and disappearing around a bend. A
string of dim electric lights hang from the ceiling.
Dimitri cautiously advances and peers around the bend. The
conveyor-belt and the lights recede into the distance. There
is no sign of life.
The camera clumsily pans round to show the blood-drenched
Dimitri in blurry close-up.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
If.. If I do not survive this.. Let
it be known that all I have done is
in honour of our glorious Soviet
Socialist Republic and our great
leader, Josef Vissarionovich
Stalin.
CUT TO BLACK
38

INT. CORRIDOR - LATER

38

We are in another corridor, although we can still hear the
rattling CONVEYOR-BELT somewhere behind us. It looks more
like the bowels of a factory or bunker than a mine now - all
concrete and wire-meshed lights at regular intervals. The
occasional door leads off the corridor, but they are dusty
and disused.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

65.

Dimitri cautiously moves down the corridor. We can vaguely
hear the sounds of DRILLING & SAWING from somewhere up ahead,
the rhythmic noises of a factory.
The lights flicker as an electric HUM momentarily fills the
air, then falls quiet once more. (This flicker-and-hum will
occur frequently.)
Just as Dimitri is nearing the corner of the corridor, he
hears SHUFFLING HEAVY FOOTSTEPS ahead.
The camera swings wildly back and forth. There is a door.
We dart towards it and, thankfully, it is not locked.
There is a flash of a lumbering, ugly monster and then the
door shuts.
39

INT. STORE-ROOM - CONTINUOUS

39

The camera pans round to take in where we are: a store-room.
The torch fixed to the camera cuts through the gloom,
lighting up piles of ornate furniture, big paintings,
chandeliers. It looks like the contents of a castle.
A large decorative shield bearing a coat-of-arms attracts
Dimitri’s attention and we approach it.
There is a name written in Gothic script at the bottom of the
shield: FRANKENSTEIN.
The torch-beam moves on, deeper into the storage room. An old
sideboard is piled with documents and framed photographs.
Dimitri’s hand reaches out and picks up a crumbling, dustcovered newspaper and holds it in front of the lens:
It shows the opening of a toy factory in Bavaria before the
First World War. The proud-looking Baron Heinrich von
Frankenstein is accompanied by a sickly boy, his son, Viktor,
holding one of the factory’s products - a metal wind-up
soldier.
Dimitri tosses it back and focuses on one of the framed
photo’s. It shows a clean-shaven, haughty, aristocratic man
shaking the hand of Adolf Hitler at some party.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
(to himself)
Hmm... I know him...
We move on. In the middle of the store-room an ornate
armchair and a couch have been drawn together around a little
pot-bellied stove on a Turkish rug to create a cosy little
den.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

66.

As we move closer, we see that a saucepan of soup is
simmering on top of the stove.
The den is surrounded by shelves filled with toys, from
cuddly bears to clockwork automata. But as we draw closer DIMITRI’S VOICE (CONT’D)
Oh my...
We focus on a clockwork drummer-boy sewn together with a
skinned rabbit, now long dead, mummified. There are other
monstrosities: a doll with the rotting head of a dog, a
kitten with six mechanical legs.
DIMITRI’S VOICE (CONT’D)
.. Madness...
There is a large aquarium, its glass walls mildewed and
misted up. Dimitri’s hand appears and wipes at the glass.
There is a teddy bear lying inside with a human head! It
suddenly moves, its stubby furry limbs thrashing around.
Dimitri, sickened, moves quickly on.
In the furthest corner of the storage room is another door.
We approach it and cautiously try the handle. It opens. There
is a staircase leading upwards.
CUT TO:
40

INT. TILED CHAMBER - DAWN

40

At the top of the stairs, we can see the early glow of dawn.
Breathless, Dimitri reaches the top and finds himself in a
vast, white-tiled hall. High up, there are whitewashed
windows running along one side that cannot block completely
the gradually increasing daylight entering.
The floor is slick with blood and pools of various digestive
juices. We can hear STEADY DRIP-DRIPPING. Dimitri gags as a
wave of unbelievable stench overwhelms him.
As he silently advances, something dark and sticky drips onto
the lens. Dimitri’s hand appears and wipes at it. Blood.
Then he pans upward.
Bodies and parts of bodies are hanging from a myriad of
chains leading to the sides and down the walls to winding
wheels. They cover the ceiling and quietly drip.
The camera pans and advances in aghast awe.
Most of the corpses are German soldiers, but there are also
civilians and many, many torn-off limbs of various sizes.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

67.

There are even some of Frankenstein’s monsters that have been
irretrievably damaged. Is that Dragger hanging there?
The camera is shaking, but it pans over the scene, determined
to record every detail.
Then there is movement at the far end of the room. A chain
RATTLES and one of the corpses slowly descends.
The camera lurches round until it finds a Frankenstein
monster turning one of the wheels of the pulley system.
Dimitri’s pistol-toting hand appears at the edge of frame,
trembling, but the creature, an ugly mish-mash of corpses in
a threadbare Wehrmacht uniform, pays him no attention.
Dimitri zooms in and we see the aeriel behind its ear, just
like the Dragger.
Suddenly, a voice:
VOICE
(in German)
Hell. We’re in Hell. We built it
ourselves. Our very own Hell.
The camera searches amid the hanging corpses, but then
realizes that the voice is coming from lower and closer.
There is a high-ranking German SS OFFICER lying on a gurney
heaped with body parts. He has lost both arms and one leg.
His ribcage is visible through his torn uniform. He rolls his
eyes towards us.
SS OFFICER
An unstoppable weapon.
He begins to laugh as if he has told a good joke.
SS OFFICER (CONT’D)
An unstoppable weapon!
Blood sprays from his mouth, but he continues to laugh. The
camera backs away, nervous that he will attract attention.
SS OFFICER (CONT’D)
Nein! Don’t go! You must kill me.
Please, please kill me!
The monster is approaching, carrying some piece of torso.
Dimitri backs further away from the gurney and the SS
Officer.
SS OFFICER (CONT’D)
Kill me! You dumb fucking Commie
shit! Kill me! You fucking useless
Red drone. Stalin is a fat
paedophile!.. Kill me! Please!!!

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

68.

The monster arrives, dropping the torso on top of the SS
Officer and begins to push the gurney away, its wheels
squeaking furiously.
SS OFFICER (CONT’D)
Nein. Neinneinnein. I don’t want
this. I don’t want to end up like
them...
Dimitri films everything, growing in confidence that the
monster is not interested in him.
We begin to follow the squeaking gurney as the undead monster
pushes it towards a big pair of swing-doors at the end of the
chamber.
It passes through and, after a moment’s hesitation, we follow
41

INT. CORRIDOR IN FACTORY - DAWN

41

- into a short stretch of tiled corridor. There is a
perfectly normal white horse standing at one side. In fact,
it is more than normal, it is beautiful, and all the more
incongruous because of it in this hellish place.
At the end of the corridor, at another pair of swing-doors,
stand two monsters like sentries.
But they are slack, their heads cast-down as if they are offline.
The gurney with the still wimpering SS Officer is pushed
between them through the doors.
Dimitri is suspicious, panning quickly from one sentry to the
other, but they remain inert - so he passes through the doors.
42

INT. ANOTHER CORRIDOR IN FACTORY - DAWN

42

This corridor is longer and ends with yet another set of
swing-doors. The SAWING & DRILLING & HUMMING are suddenly
much louder here. We can almost feel the static crackle
through us when the lights dim momentarily again.
Suddenly, Dimitri senses something and pans round to see - another Frankenstein that was standing in the corner behind
the swing-door through which he just passed!
And it is looking straight at him!
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Oh shit.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

69.

This new Frankenstein is big and Mongolian-featured and is
wearing a Russian uniform. The top of his head is missing,
but is covered by a Russian fur hat that sits unnaturally low
because there is no skull beneath.
One hand ends in a hammer, the other in a sickle. It takes a
lumbering step towards him. We recognise him.
DIMITRI’S VOICE (CONT’D)
Ivan..? Ivan, it’s me, Dimitri..
Dimitri slides along the wall away from “Ivan”.
The Communist Frankenstein raises its hammer and sickle and
advances, but not quickly.
Dimitri moves hurriedly down the corridor, almost catching up
with the creature pushing the gurney.
Which suddenly stops and one of its hands unconsciously
reaches for the stubby aeriel bolt behind its ear.
It lets go of the gurney, seeming to listen.
But Dimitri pans away to see where Ivan is and when he pans
back, the gurney-pusher is suddenly right on top of us and - grabbing the camera. Somehow Dimitri keeps hold of it. The
crazily swinging camera reveals the “Ivan” advancing slowly.
He is getting uncomfortably close.
DIMITRI’S VOICE (CONT’D)
No! Let go!!
The camera is torn free and then WHACK! It is used as a
weapon to hit the Frankenstein in the face.
It opens its mouth in a voiceless cry of reptilian anger and - “Ivan” is upon us, raising the sickle to strike!
DIMITRI’S VOICE (CONT’D)
Oh Jesus God, help me!
VOICE (O.S.)
Stop!
The monsters do just that. Their arms drop to their sides and
they take half a pace backwards.
The camera is shaking and the focus is off, but we still
recognise Igor limping down the corridor towards us, using a
silver-topped cane for support.
IGOR
Ah! The cameraman. Our very own
Eisenstein.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

70.

Igor stands differently and speaks differently. He smiles
arrogantly into the lens.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
(still in shock)
You - you know Eisenstein?
IGOR
Of course. Do you think I’m a
barbarian?
Dimitri is too stunned to know what to think.
IGOR (CONT’D)
You’re filming now, aren’t you?
Good. It’s only proper that there’s
a record.. Come, I’ll show you the
lab.
Igor leads the way down the corridor towards the big set of
swing-doors at the end. They are followed by Ivan, while the
other returns to pushing the gurney with the now silently
weeping German Officer.
Igor nods back towards Ivan.
IGOR (CONT’D)
What do you think of him, hmm?
Rather droll, don’t you think?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Igor...
IGOR
Oh, sorry. That was a lie. Igor was
my grandfather’s servant. Complete
idiot. A self-indulgent joke of
mine.. No, my real name is Viktor.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Viktor.. Frankenstein?!
IGOR/VIKTOR
Ha! The very same.
Viktor stops and raises a hand.
VIKTOR
Shh. Listen..
In the distance, we can hear GUN-FIRE.
The gun-fire slowly diminishes to a single PISTOL-SHOT.
And then there is silence.
VIKTOR (CONT’D)
Your squad. Brave.. but stupid.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

71.

Dimitri notices that the raised hand is the one that Vassili
cut the little finger from. It now has a little finger again,
crudely sewn on and slightly green-tinged. Viktor flexes the
hand and the little finger barely moves.
VIKTOR (CONT’D)
(half to himself)
Still getting used to this.
He turns and moves towards the double-doors again from behind
which we can hear WHIRRING, DRILLING, SAWING.
VIKTOR (CONT’D)
Come along. You need to get this.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Er, one moment. I must change the CUT TO:
43

INT. FACTORY SPACE - DAY

43

We are suddenly in Frankenstein’s lab. Or to put it more
accurately, his factory. Because that is what it is: a place
where new Frankenstein Soldiers are ASSEMBLED and CONSTRUCTED
by other functioning FRANKENSTEINS.
The ‘workers’ use industrial STAPLERS and POWER TOOLS to
assemble body parts and corpses into FRANKENSTEIN SOLDIERS.
Viktor leads the way along the “production-line”.
VIKTOR
Freshness is key. I can get a
virtual skeleton up and about for a
while, but it soon falls apart.
Dimitri’s camera greedily tries to take in every detail of
the process as it follows one of Frankenstein’s monsters
being constructed.
The new soldier is ROLLED ALONG metal rollers - with
different ‘workers’ adding parts, some human, others
mechanical, to it.
One worker pushes a pointed bolt into the skull behind the
ear and twists it, activating it - the radio receiver.
The finished body is rolled to the very front of the line And is removed by a TEAM OF WORKERS - and carried to A large ELECTRICAL/MECHANICAL MACHINE.
VIKTOR (CONT’D)
This is the part I’m most proud of;
the rest is simple mechanics. Even
(MORE)

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

72.

VIKTOR (CONT’D)
these things can put a body
together, but to make it live...

It is a bigger and more complex version of the central
MACHINERY inside the Church. At its heart is what looks
like a reclining DENTIST’S CHAIR.
The lifeless body is ‘seated’ in the chair. Then a metal
frame of ELECTRODES and METAL WIRES is attached to the head
- the spine - and the chest.
A female MEDIC WORKER steps forward - she is holding a
large metal SYRINGE. She injects the corpse. Dimitri starts
and the camera zooms in on her.
It is Eva. Or, at least it has Eva’s head, though now blankfaced, dead-eyed.
Another ‘worker’ shoves a metal SWITCH triggering massive
JOLTS of electricity which make the body shake and jump Then the eyes twitch and spring open with a gaze of
horrible mindlessness and the new ‘Frankenstein’ soldier is
ALIVE.
Workers remove the electrodes and the new Frankenstein
obediently moves away, guided by some internal command
system.
The camera follows the newborn monster as it passes through a
pair of swing-doors into a dark chamber. We can see the
silhouettes of many, many more Frankensteins. All just
standing there, awaiting instructions.
VIKTOR (CONT’D)
I have built upon my grandfather’s
work, streamlining his techniques.
He needed thunderstorms, but I can
do it with a simple, if somewhat
large, generator. You see, I have
cut The camera runs out and the SCREEN GOES WHITE.
44

INT. FACTORY SPACE - DAY

44

VIKTOR (O.S.)
I can’t remember what I was saying
anymore. If you can’t use that
thing properly, I’ll chop you up
and use you for spare parts.
The camera, blurred, is picked up by Dimitri. His face is
fearful. He hefts the camera, plants it on his shoulder.
Viktor appears, sitting casually on the edge of an operatingtable, the factory behind him.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

DIMITRI’S VOICE
I’m sorry, sir. Please accept my
apologies. I was so impressed by
your work that I forgot to keep an
eye on the counter.
VIKTOR
Yes, well...
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Can you explain why so many of
your... automatons are German
soldiers?
VIKTOR
“Automaton” is not a good word. It
implies they are lifeless machines,
puppets, like the toys my poor
father made. These creatures live.
They need to eat, though they are
not very fussy as to what.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Incredible. And the uniforms?
VIKTOR
Well.. There were some accidents.
They wanted to shut me down; called
my work too dangerous. I could not
allow such primitive bourgeois
thinking to stop me. So I had to
eliminate them. But we put their
bodies to good use.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Fascinating. I also noticed they
have some sort of radio-receiver
built into their heads.
VIKTOR
Yes, another development of mine.
Control was always DIMITRI’S VOICE
Shh. Listen.
VIKTOR
(irritated)
What?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Can you not hear it, sir?
We listen and can faintly hear a very distant BOOMING.
VIKTOR
What is that?

73.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

74.

DIMITRI’S VOICE
It’s us, sir. The Red Army. Our
artillery.
For the first time, Viktor looks a little unnerved.
VIKTOR
Interesting. How far away would you
say that was?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Thirty miles? They could be here
tomorrow. Depending on the defences
they come up against.
VIKTOR
And why are you telling me this?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
I’m here to offer you a deal. Our
military leadership is very
interested in your work.
VIKTOR
I’m sure they are! I imagine it
fits perfectly with their
philosophy. After all, you can’t
get more Proletarian than the
grave. The dead are truly equal.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Exactly. And with such a weapon..
VIKTOR
You could defeat the Western
allies. Turn the whole world into a
socialist utopia.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Yes. Of course, if you refuse, then
I doubt even your army of the dead
will be able to save you from the
Stalin-organs or the 50-pounders.
There is a commotion at another entrance to the factory
space, doors opening as a group of zombots enter, dragging
some things behind them: three men.
VASSILI
Fuck you! Fuck you!!
VIKTOR
Here they are! And at least one is
still alive. Good, good.. Dimitri.
Thankyou for your kind offer. It’s
very tempting.. But now.. Seeing as
time is pressing, I want to do a
last bit of experimentation before
(MORE)

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

75.

VIKTOR (CONT'D)
we leave this place. Who knows when
I will next get the chance.

He gets up and crosses to another door, entering a separate
chamber, towards which his monsters are dragging their
trophies.
VASSILI
(seeing Viktor)
Oh, it’s you, you fucking moron!
Dimitri’s camera hangs back, but can see through the doorway
as the men are dumped in a pile, blood leaking to form a
puddle around them.
VIKTOR
Dimitri! Come in here please.
CUT TO:
45

INT. LABORATORY - MOMENTS LATER

45

A large and well-equipped lab with a number of broad
operating-tables lined up. Along the walls are jars and tanks
containing the gruesome trophies of previous experiments, but
we only glimse these, our attention grabbed by - the two Russian soldiers that have been separated from the
bloody pile of bodies. Because they are both alive.
Loud-mouthed Vassili has lost an arm (the one that wore the
watches). He is on his back, his feet being held tightly by a
squat monster, who has various serious gun-shot wounds to
which it pays no apparent attention.
The other survivor is Sergei. He lies still and silent,
unconscious, covered in blood, but clearly breathing.
Vassili notices Dimitri with the camera.
VASSILI
Fuck me! All Jew-Boys together! How
fucking cosy. I should have fucking
slit your throat!
DIMITRI’S VOICE
You traitorous pig! You left me to
die.
Vassili suddenly lunges towards the camera, trying to stand
to get at Dimitri and almost pulling free of the monster
holding him. The camera jumps back, startled.
Vassili falls back and begins to laugh deliriously. The
laughter slowly turns to tears and he mutters to himself
rapidly under his breath, slowly losing his mind.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

76.

VASSILI
They stole my watches!
VIKTOR
Dimitri. I would like you to film
the experiment I am about to
undertake. It’s revolutionary.
Maybe you should stand over there.
Dimitri does as he is told, moving into position beside a
pair of large and gleaming operating-table.
Eva and another Frankenstein are standing ready to assist
Viktor. She is laying out some gruesome-looking tools and
surgical implements on a work-table supported by a pair of
boys legs which make it able to follow her around. (We may or
may not recognize the Hitlerjugend shorts the legs are
wearing - it is Hans!)
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Er.. Sir? What are you planning to
do?
VIKTOR
As I told you, the fresher the
better. And if I can use flesh that
is still alive, I can perform
miracles.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Still alive..?
Vassili is lifted up onto the operating table. He does not
struggle, just sobs and mutters.
VASSILI
Oh, mother, my mother. This isn’t
how it should be. It’s all wrong.
Oh mother, they took my watches.
The Frankenstein then bends and picks up the limp form of
Sergei and places him on the other operating-table. He begins
to stir, blearily opening his eyes andd squinting about him.
Viktor goes to stand between the two tables and looks
directly at us. He spreads his hands, indicating the two
Russians.
VIKTOR
Dimitri. Tell me. Which of these
two would you say was the better
example of a Communist?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Wha- What?

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

77.

VIKTOR
Which of these two better embodies
the ideals and beliefs of your
Soviet system? It’s a simple
question.
As Viktor speaks, behind his back, Vassili is squirming
around, reaching for the tray of medical equipment.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Er... Sergei, that one, is a much
better citizen of the Suddenly, Vassili rears up with a long, sharp scalpel in his
hand. He lunges at Viktor, aiming for his throat.
BANG! Vassili falls back in a cloud of blood and atomized
grey matter.
Dimitri’s hand appears at the edge of frame, holding his
pistol. Which is smoking.
Viktor looks around at Vassili’s corpse. (Sergei is now
properly awake and understands where he is. He glares
uncomprehendingly at Dimitri.)
VIKTOR
Thankyou... er, “Comrade”.. Where
was I? Ah yes. So, luckily, you
shot the one I didn’t really need.
He waves to one of the monsters and it drags Vassili’s corpse
from the operating-table (it lands with a sickening crunch on
the floor) and dumps it onto the lifeless body of young
Sacha.
VIKTOR (CONT’D)
Bring in the Sturmbannfuhrer!
Meanwhile, the zombot-version of Eva is busily strapping down
Sergei. When he is secure, she moves to his head and uses a
metal-support to prop his head up, so that he is looking
directly (and accusingly) at us.
Movement behind us. The camera pans round to see the
Frankenstein monster pushing the gurney with the German
Officer on it enter the lab.
VIKTOR (CONT’D)
I was wondering if there is
something fundamentally different
in the brains of Nazi’s and
Communists. It’ll give me a chance
to try something I’ve wanted to do
for a while.
Viktor picks up a buzzing electric bone-saw as the German
Officer is laid on the operating-table where Vassili had

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

78.

been. His remaining limbs are strapped down and his head
propped up like Sergei’s.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
(sounding tight, upset)
Must you do this?
VIKTOR
As I said: when am I going to get
another chance? The war’s nearly
over. This is not the sort of work
that gets much funding in
peacetime.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
It will in Russia! We have plenty
of bodies for you to work on. Or
politico’s, if you need living men.
VIKTOR
I said I would think about it. Now
be quiet and let me do my work or
you’ll make me angry.
Viktor goes to the SS Officer’s head, inspecting the skull,
grasping the top of it with one hand.
SS OFFICER
Viktor. Please. I’m sorry we tried
to stop you. I.. I was just
following orders!
VIKTOR
Hush now, Dieter. You don’t have to
apologize.
WHIZZZZZZ. Viktor bends forward with the whirring saw and
starts to slice through the German Officer’s skull. The SS
man starts to SCREAM.
Blood spatters the lens and Dimitri has to turn it around to
clean it. He looks as white as a sheet. The sound of
SCREAMING continues unabated.
VIKTOR (O.S.) (CONT’D)
What are you doing?! I told you to
film!
The camera, lens not entirely clean, turns back towards the
grisly horror. There is blood everywhere.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Sorry. Blood on the lens.
Viktor shakes his head impatiently, but returns to work,
sawing all the way around the German’s skull. His screams are
growing weaker.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

79.

Finally, he is done and Viktor lays the saw down to one side.
He tugs at the top of the skull and, with a wet SUCKING
NOISE, it comes loose, revealing the pulsing brain beneath.
The German Officer moans and his eyes roll.
VIKTOR
So. That is half the work..
DIMITRI’S VOICE
What?.. Is he... What are you going
to do?
VIKTOR
Ah-ha. Can’t wait, can you? Let us
say that I am going to see what
happens when we internalize the
war. I am hoping it will give birth
to something that transcends
Communism and Fascism. A worthy
goal, wouldn’t you say?
Viktor inspects his electric saw critically.
VIKTOR (CONT’D)
I think I need a new blade. Won’t
be a moment..
Viktor wanders off out of shot and Dimitri is left with Eva,
the other monster - and Sergei, who struggles to turn his head towards us.
SERGEI
(in an urgent whisper)
Dima. Dima, help me.
DIMITRI’S VOICE
Seryosha, you know that I can’t. My
orders were to bring him back, no
matter what.
SERGEI
But he’s completely insane. He was
working for the Nazi’s and look
where it got them!
Eva and the other monster pay their conversation no attention
at all, busy with their duties.
SERGEI (CONT’D)
Together, we can get out of here.
But I need your help!
DIMITRI’S VOICE
I told you, I cannot! But I promise
you this, Seryosha: when I return
to Moscow, I will personally ensure
(MORE)

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

80.

DIMITRI’S VOICE (CONT'D)
that you are awarded the “Hero of
the Soviet Union” medal. Your
sacrifice will not be forgotten!

SERGEI
(scoffs cynically)
Oh Mitya. Keep your fucking gold
star!
Off-screen we hear the WHIRR of the electric saw. Viktor is
returning.
SERGEI (CONT’D)
Listen, you fool. I made radiocontact before we were attacked.
Told Mother you were dead; the
mission was a failure. What do you
think will happen now?
DIMITRI’S VOICE
What? But Viktor reappears and pushes Dimitri aside. He immediately
lowers the spinning blade of the saw to the side of Sergei’s
skull, who screams.
Blood mixed with powdered bone sprays around Viktor, who has
his back to us as he draws the blade patiently around
Sergei’s head.
The camera wobbles and then topples to the floor.
The SCREEN GOES BLACK.
46

INT. FACTORY SPACE - LATER

46

The camera is held unsteadily as it is switched on and veers
around before finally settling. But the image is completely
blurred.
VIKTOR (O.S.)
Hang on. Ah, here we are.
The image slowly comes into focus.
We are looking down at the operating-table, which has been
wheeled to the large electricity-generator in the factory
space.
On it lies Sergei, his brain exposed. As the camera moves
even closer, we notice that the two halves of the brain are
slightly different colours.
A syringe appears in shot through which Eva injects something
that streams over the exposed brain, flooding it with a
greenish fluid.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

81.

VIKTOR (O.S.) (CONT’D)
Good. Okay.. As you can see, the
two halves of the brain have been
grafted together. I used the
Commie’s body as the receptacle
because the Sturmbannfuhrer’s was
too far gone. Both subjects
naturally died during the process
of conjoining. Oh yes, to be clear.
The left hemisphere is the
Communist’s, the right, the
Fascist’s. It seemed apt to do it
that way. We have injected the bioreagent and will now use the
generator.. Start it up.
A Frankenstein fixes the wires to various places on Sergei’s
corpse, while Eva fits a metal helmet-like bowl over the
brain, then steps back.
Eva throws the switch and - electricity fizzes and sparks into the thing, causing it to
writhe and judder and jump.
VIKTOR (O.S.) (CONT’D)
Enough!
The electricity ceases and the camera moves forward to frame
Sergei’s face as he slowly opens his eyes.
The two eyes stare about them, seeming to want to point in
different directions, madness and mindlessness competing in
their tortured gaze.
Sergei manages to turn his/its head, taking in his
surroundings blearily, then he raises his hands and stares at
them in growing horror.
He begins to moan and shake and thrash around. The two hands
rise to the helmet covering the mongrel brain and begin to
claw at it, as if attempting to tear it in two. Instead they
only succeed in ripping the face to shreds.
The camera backs away cautiously.
VIKTOR (O.S.) (CONT’D)
Interesting. It’s obviously
suffering from a little..
readjustment problem.
A MOAN can be heard off-screen.
The camera pans round to another operating-table.
This time, the patient/victim strapped to it is - Dimitri.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

82.

Viktor sets about placing the camera on a shelfed table.
DIMITRI
What... I... What are you doing?
Viktor is fussy about the positioning and framing of the
shot, ZOOMING IN on Dimitri’s terrified face. He picks up
Dimitri’s half-empty backpack (containing the film) to use as
something to prop the camera against.
VIKTOR (O.S.)
(to himself)
Yes, that will do. As long as I
don’t cut my head off.
DIMITRI
But Baron Frankenstein? I thought
we had a deal. You will be safe in
Russia. You’ll be able to work
freely.
Viktor appears, bending close to Dimitri.
VIKTOR
We never had a deal. I said I would
think about it. And I have. But I’m
afraid I’m going to have to refuse
your generous offer.
DIMITRI
But you’re dooming yourself. The
Nazi’s, even if they accepted you
back, are finished!
VIKTOR
Oh, I know that. No, I am refusing
your deal because I have already
received a better one.. From the
Americans.
DIMITRI
What?! The Yankees!!
VIKTOR
Yes, I will be leaving soon to
rendezvous with them. But I think I
have time for one last experiment..
DIMITRI
No, you can’t! What about the film?
VIKTOR
You can keep the film, Dimitri, I
don’t need it. Without the secrets
of my bio-reagent and generator,
you have nothing but a home movie.
Dimitri begins to struggle and tug at his bonds.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

83.

To no avail.
Viktor disappears out of frame and the camera shifts slightly
and the lens-mount is rotated to a wider lens.
VIKTOR (O.S) (CONT’D)
Now, what shall we do with you?
Maybe I’ll build this camera into
your skull. That might be amusing.
Now we can see, in the background, the bodies of Vassili and
Sacha still lying in the pool of blood through the open door
to the lab and - the edge of the other operating-table where the thing that
once was Sergei lies, whimpering bestially as it continues to
attack itself.
DIMITRI
You’re insane! You’re not a
scientist at all.
VIKTOR
A scientist? No, I’m much more than
that! A scientist just looks at
things and scribbles little notes,
but I! I have grasped hold of the
world’s clay and formed it into my
own image!
DIMITRI
Madness!
Viktor grins wolfishly and picks up a nasty looking probing
tool; something one might use to scoop out an eye-ball.
That’s when the BOOMING starts.
At first, it is far off, but it is terrifyingly rapid in its
approach. Like a giant God-child running across Heaven’s
floor.
BOOMBOOMBOOMBOOM!
VIKTOR
What is that?
DIMITRI
(grinning)
That is the beginning of a carpet
bombardment. That, sir, are my
comrades come to blast you to
smithereens.
BOOOOM!!!
The whole room shakes as the mine-building is hit by a
falling bomb. Dust and plaster fall.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

84.

The next bomb is a little further away, but a new series of
bomb blasts is already approaching fast.
Viktor tosses the surgical instrument aside.
VIKTOR
(disappointed)
Oh well. I suppose I could leave
now.
DIMITRI
Yes, but release me first.
VIKTOR
No, I don’t think so.
Viktor rapidly stuffs a briefcase with papers and phials of
liquid.
Another MASSIVE EXPLOSION shakes the room. More dust and
plaster rains down. We hear COLLAPSING MASONRY.
Viktor steps over to the end of the operating-table where
Dimitri lies helpless.
VIKTOR (CONT’D)
You’ll find that my army begins to
act regressively without my
presence. They turn on each other
and anything else they find in
their vicinity. Only I can command
them because I imprint myself on
their rudimentary minds. I’m sure
you’d be fascinated to hear all
about it, but I must dash. So..
Good luck. Comrade Dimitri.
Viktor limps calmly off, disappearing out of shot as the
EXPLOSIONS continue to come from all sides.
DIMITRI
NOOOOOOOOO!
He struggles desperately, but is bound too tightly.
Then, in the background, we see “Sergei” has ceased to attack
itself, though its face and upper body are already hideously
maimed. It is looking at its raised hands again. Something is
caught between the fingers - a silver locket on a chain
(Sergei’s locket with the photo of his wife and child).
Sergei seems to be staring at the locket, but then it shakes
its hand and the locket flies away and it turns its gaze
towards Dimitri with an intense hatred that seems to have
unified the split mind within.
It starts to struggle to get to its feet, clumsy but
determined.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

85.

DIMITRI (CONT’D)
NOOOOOO! Come back! You can’t do
this!
Then another thing happens in the background. The bodies of
Vassili and Sacha lying in the lab move!
Cautiously, Sacha untangles himself from Vassili’s corpse and
slowly stands. Though covered in blood, he seems unharmed.
Dimitri sees him.
DIMITRI (CONT’D)
Sacha! Thank God! Quickly! Help me!
Sacha steps out of the lab and looks about him, seeing the
Frankenstein version of his friend, Dimitri on the table and
the camera filming it all.
DIMITRI (CONT’D)
Sacha! Please! Hurry!
The room is once more shaken by an enormous EXPLOSION. This
time, pieces of masonry fall, smashing instruments and
machines.
Sergei loses its precarious balance and falls to the floor.
Sacha does not wait. He turns round and flees for the exit.
DIMITRI (CONT’D)
SACHA!!! NOOOO!!!
Sacha disappears.
Sergei is back on his feet and - staring murderously at Dimitri.
It takes a wobbly step towards him.
Dimitri sees Sergei approaching and understands that the
undead Russian/German does not wish him well.
DIMITRI (CONT’D)
Oh God, no! I’m sorry, Seryosha.
I’m sorry.
It takes another step.
But then Sacha reappears!
He runs through the wreckage of the room, covering his head
from the still falling pieces of brickwork, towards the
operating-table.
DIMITRI (CONT’D)
Sacha. Thank God. Quickly now.

FRANKENSTEIN'S ARMY, Revised 2nd Version, DEC 2011

86.

SACHA
I’m sorry, but I c-c-cannot. But I
promise you this, Comrade M-mmitya: I will p-personally make
sure you get the “Hero of the
Soviet Union” m-mmm-m-medal.
DIMITRI
What? No!
Sacha runs round the side of the table and grabs the camera
and the backpack full of film.
Then he runs away.
The camera is held loosely in his hand, pointing upside-down
behind Sacha.
We can still see Dimitri on the operating-table.
DIMITRI (CONT’D)
NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!!
Sergei has nearly reached him. He/it extends his hands as yet
another HUGE, DEAFENING EXPLOSION rocks the building.
DIMITRI (CONT’D)
NOOOOOOOO!!!!!!
Camera runs out and SCREEN GOES WHITE.
...
And then a BLACK SCREEN. WE HOLD on the BLACKNESS for a long
beat.
Then a MESSAGE appears in RUSSIAN CYRILLIC LETTERS.
SUBTITLES for the Message appear beneath:
THIS FILM IS CLASSIFIED TOP SECRET, VIEWING IT IS A
VIOLATION OF STATE SECURITY, VIOLATORS WILL BE SHOT.
The message disappears...
.. leaving us in BLACKNESS. And SILENCE.
THE END
CHRIS W. MITCHELL, Tha Hague, 22-12-11
(Story by MIGUEL TEJADA-FLORES & RICHARD RAAPHORST)