THE FRENCH DISPATCH
OF THE LIBERTY, KANSAS EVENING SUN
Screenplay By

WES ANDERSON
Story By

WES ANDERSON
ROMAN COPPOLA
HUGO GUINNESS
JASON SCHWARTZMAN

Obituary
(pages 1 to 9)

1.
INSERT:
The proof-print (fresh from the press, with crop marks and
registration-X’s) of an obituary in the Declines and Deaths
Section of a weekly newspaper magazine supplement. A linedrawing depicts an inkpot tipped over spilling a pool of black.
TITLE:
Memorial
“Editor-in-Chief Dead at 75”
by the Editorial Staff
INSERT:
A caricature of a tall, bald, pudgy, bespectacled man with a
pencil tucked over his ear. Caption: “Arthur Howitzer, Jr. Son
of a newspaper publisher, founder of this magazine.
(B: 1900, D: 1975.)”
EXT. STREET CORNER. DAY
An ash-blackened (like every facade in this French city), five
story, brick and stone building of flats and bureaux. It lists
slightly to one side. A welded metalwork sign across the upper
floor reads: “The French Dispatch (of the Liberty, Kansas
Evening Sun)”. Down below, at street level: the magazine’s
delivery dock and, directly adjacent, a narrow, bustling boîte
with a neon Bar «Tabac» Journaux suspended over its striped
canopies. Métro station: Printer’s District.
A voice (American, female, scholarly) begins:
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)
It began as a holiday.
CUT TO:
A serving tray on a lazy-Susan. It twists left and right, back
and forth, as it fills rapidly with: a demi-tasse, coffee in a
tiny pitcher, and hot milk in a creamer; a half-bottle of cold
white wine, perspiring; a crimson colored cocktail one finger
deep; a short-stemmed glass of amber aperitif; a jigger of offblack digestif (which gets an egg cracked into it, two jolts of
spicy sauce, and a raw oyster carefully slid from its halfshell); a small chocolate sundae; Coke in a bottle; a box of
cigarettes with a book of matches; and a little glass of water
with an effervescent tablet dropped in, fizzing.
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)
Arthur Howitzer, Jr, college freshman,
eager to escape a bright future on the
Great Plains, convinced his father
(more)

2.
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.) (cont'd)
(proprietor of the Liberty, Kansas
Evening Sun) to fund his trans-Atlantic
passage as an educational opportunity to
learn the family business through the
production of a series of travelogue
columns to be published for local readers
in the Sunday “Picnic” magazine.
The tray booms up and sails, glass rattling but swift and sure,
away from camera on the suspended palm and fingertips of a
skilled waiter in a black waistcoat and long, white apron.
EXT. REAR COURTYARD. DAY
The cour of the same building. A pressboard outhouse; a coal
bin; sheaves of pulp-paper; a pile of rinds, crusts, and peels;
and a pack of pubescent schoolboys in capes, caps, and short
trousers who eat smushed éclairs and poke balloon-sticks at a
sleeping derelict. The café’s rear door bangs open, the boys
scatter, and our waiter emerges. In a wide, vertical frame, he
speedily ascends (via three staircases, two catwalks, and a
ladder) while the obituary continues:
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)
Over the next ten years, he assembled a
team of the best expatriate journalists
of his time and transformed “Picnic” into
“The French Dispatch”: a factual weekly
report on the subjects of world politics,
the arts (high and low), fashion, fancy
cuisine/fine drink, and diverse stories
of human-interest set in faraway
quartiers. He brought the world to
Kansas.
EXT. SERVICE STAIRS. DAY
A landing at the top floor. A cardboard hangs from a nail on the
door: “Silence! Writers Writing”. The waiter pulls a chainlatch, bumps the door with a cocked hip, backs inside, then
downs the bicarbonate of soda before kicking the door shut with
a thwack.
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)
His writers line the spines of every good
American library.
MONTAGE:
An office filled with stacked art books and clippings, walls
push-pinned top to bottom with postcards of modern art: an
unseen woman drapes a negligée over a dressing-screen.

3.

Berensen.

EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)

An office stocked with neatly organized galoshes, walking
sticks, hats, raincoats, boots, cameras, binoculars, notebooks,
maps, and an upside-down bicycle with a flat tire: a man on a
footstool, half off-screen, rummages on the top of a supply
cabinet.
Sazerac.

EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)

A Spartan, white office with only a pine desk and an oak chair:
a seated woman, back to camera, smokes.
Krementz.

EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)

An office over-decorated in scarlet, lavender, and chartreuse
with a marble torso of Adonis: a pair of espadrilled feet stick
into view propped up at the end of a chintz daybed.
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)
Roebuck Wright.
In the Press Room: a former-quarterback in rolled up shirtsleeves, hat tilted back, corrects copy in longhand with his
right hand while typing forty words per minute with his left.
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)
One reporter known as the best living
writer in quality of sentences per
minute.
In the File Room: a freckly string-bean loiters, laughing to
himself, as he reads a thesaurus and eats crackers.
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)
One who never completed a single article
but haunted the halls cheerily for three
decades.
In a formal garden (spectacularly in bloom): a tall Calcuttan in
dark sunglasses listens, nods, and takes notes with a braille
slate and stylus as a teenage, feminine amanuensis whispers in
his ear.
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)
One privately blind writer who wrote
keenly through the eyes of others.
At a chalkboard: a proofreader with her hair in a bun parses a
sentence. (”They will fail to notice, under the corner of a
threadbare rug, the torn ticket-stub for an unclaimed hat which

4.
sits alone on the upper shelf of a cloakroom in a bus depot on
the outskirts of the work-a-day town where Nickerson and his
accomplices were apprehended.”)
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)
The uncontested crackerjack of
grammatical expertise.
INSERT:
A right hand traces a left hand with a long calligraphy brush,
then sets to work quickly converting the outline into a gobbling
but very stylish turkey.
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)
Cover illustrations by Hermès Jones.
CUT TO:
A tiny man with a frisée of curly hair sitting at a drafting
table, pleased, as he lovingly adds feathers to his picture.
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)
Famously gracious with his writers,
Arthur Jr. was less courteous with the
rest of the magazine’s staff.
Passing footsteps come to a sudden halt, and a finger jolts into
shot:
HOWITZER (O.S.)
Oh, no. What’s that? I need a turkey.
Stuffed and roasted! On a table with all
the trimmings and Pilgrims and -CUT TO:
An accountant tallying receipts on an adding machine. An out-offocus figure, pacing, criss-crosses through frame in the
foreground.
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)
His fiscal management-system was
convoluted but functional.
HOWITZER
Give her 150 francs a week for the next
fifteen years against five American cents
per word, minus expenses.
CUT TO:

5.
A door with a frosted window. Painted letters read: Editor-inChief. The silhouette of a standing figure listens to the
silhouette of a seated one.
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)
His most-repeated literary advice
(perhaps apocryphal) was simply this:
HOWITZER
Try to make it sound like you wrote it
that way on purpose.
EXT. TOWN HOUSE. DAY
A Queen Anne mansion on the best street of an old Mid-western,
American city. In front, a uniformed chauffeur waits alongside a
parked, mid-seventies hearse.
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)
His return to Liberty comes precisely
fifty years after his departure, on the
occasion of his funeral, by which time
the magazine’s circulation exceeds half a
million subscribers in fifty countries.
CUT TO:
An open coffin on display in the parlor. Inside: a basket tied
neatly with rope, a portable typewriter, a thick stack of white
paper, and a dead body (late seventies, tall, bald, pudgy,
bespectacled).
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)
A willow hamper containing umpteen pins,
plaques, and official citations of the
highest order is buried at his side,
along with an Andretti Ribbon-mate and a
ream of triple bond, Egyptian cotton
typing stock.
EXT. PRAIRIE CEMETERY. DAY
A remote graveyard in winter, late afternoon: white sky, white
earth. A two-stroke excavator throttles and piston-pops,
scraping at the frozen ground.
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)
He received an Editor’s Burial.
CUT TO:
A long corridor. The camera follows the waiter with his tray of
refreshments as he searches room to room. All desks have been
abandoned.

6.
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)
In his will he stipulated that,
immediately upon his death, quote:
INSERT:
A legal document labeled “Last Will and Testament”. Editorial
comments, corrections, and “stets” (each initialed “A.H.Jr.”)
decorate the margins in blue pencil. (Example: “Better than
melt: liquify.”) Howitzer narrates this shot himself:
HOWITZER (V.O.)
The presses will be dismantled and
liquified; the editorial offices will be
vacated and sold; the staff will be paid
ample bonuses and released from their
contracts; and the publication of the
magazine will permanently cease.
CUT TO:
A stack of magazines bound in twine which thumps onto a
sidewalk. A news agent picks up the package and hangs a copy of
the final issue by a clip on the shutter of his kiosk. Cover
illustration: the spilled inkpot image now rendered in paint and
color. Caption below: 1925-1975.
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)
Thus, the publisher’s obituary will,
also, serve as that of this publication.
(All home delivery readers will, of
course, be refunded, pro rata, for the
unfulfilled portion of their
subscriptions.)
INT. EDITORIAL OFFICE. DAY
On one wall: a sun-faded map of the state of Kansas. On another:
a mock-up of the issue-in-progress with table of contents and
cards indicating articles, authors, page numbers, level-ofcompletion, etc. On a table: the proofreader, frowning, one longstockinged leg swinging like a pendulum as she flips through
manuscript pages. On the couch: a story editor and a legal
advisor who mutter and shake their heads as they mark up
galleys. In the corner: the cheery writer, reading an almanac
and eating pretzels.
Behind his desk, arms folded, deep in thought, Howitzer looks
very much as we last saw him (in his casket), though younger by
ten years and lighter by a stone.
The waiter discreetly distributes the drinks order.

7.
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)
His epitaph will be taken verbatim from
the carved shingle fixed above the door
of his inner office.
A cum laude alumna (cardigan sweater, New England accent) reads
from a spiral bound notebook, re-capping the status of the worksin-progress:
ALUMNA
Berensen’s article. “The Concrete
Masterpiece.”
PROOFREADER
(coolly)
Three dangling participles, two split
infinitives, and nine spelling errors in
the first sentence alone.
HOWITZER
(taking exception)
Some of those are intentional.
There is a general murmuring. The alumna flips to the next page.
ALUMNA
The Krementz story. “Revisions to a
Manifesto.”
STORY EDITOR
(darkly)
We asked for twenty-five hundred words,
and she came in at 14,000, plus footnotes, endnotes, a glossary, and two
epilogues.
HOWITZER
(definitively)
It’s one of her best.
Another murmuring. The alumna flips to the next page again.
Sazerac?

ALUMNA

LEGAL ADVISOR
(defeated)
Impossible to fact-check. He changes all
the names, and only writes about hoboes,
pimps, and junkies.
HOWITZER
(entranced)
These are his people.

8.
Murmuring, round three. The alumna flips the page once more,
pauses, then asks, skeptical:
ALUMNA
How about Roebuck Wright?
CHEERY WRITER
(encouraging)
His door’s locked, but I could hear the
keys clacking.
HOWITZER
(firmly)
Don’t rush him.
The room erupts: bustling and chattering in a chaotic hubbub of
annoyed complaining. The alumna sips at the Coke bottle and gets
to the point:
ALUMNA
The question is: who gets killed? There’s
one piece too many, even if we print
another double-issue, which we can’t
afford under any circumstances.
The room sighs and groans. Howitzer picks up the chocolate
sundae. He eats it in four decisive bites and drinks the
digestif concoction. A double-rap, then the door cracks open. A
copy boy pokes his pimply face into the room.
COPY BOY
Mr. Howitzer, sir? A message from the
foreman:
(holding up a chit)
One hour to press.
HOWITZER
(instantly)
You’re fired.
COPY BOY
(choking-up)
Really?
Tears stream down the copy boy’s flushed cheeks. Howitzer’s face
tightens. He snarls:
HOWITZER
Don’t cry in my office.
Howitzer’s index finger juts, diagonal, into the air -- pointing
to:
INSERT:

9.
A carved shingle fixed above the door. Two words: “NO CRYING.”
The copy boy reads the sign and swallows hard. He nods and
exits. Howitzer shuffles the papers on his desk. He drums his
fingers for ten seconds.
HOWITZER
Shrink the masthead, cut some ads, and
tell the foreman to buy more paper. I’m
not killing anybody.
The room erupts again. Howitzer wanders over to the wall where
he studies the mock-up of the issue. He switches the order of
the cards/articles. He switches them back, uncertain. The camera
slowly zooms in on the authors’ names in the table of contents.
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)
Good writers. He coddled them, he coaxed
them, he ferociously protected them.
Howitzer looks to the waiter lingering at his side.
HOWITZER
What do you think?
The waiter shrugs. It is obvious to him:
WAITER
For myself? I would start with Mr.
Sazerac.
Howitzer contemplates this suggestion as the obituary concludes:
EDITORIAL STAFF (V.O.)
These were his people.

10.

Sketchbook
(pages 11 to 17)

11.
INSERT:
The proof-print of a weekly column in the City Section. A linedrawing depicts a Métro station entrance gate.
TITLE:
Local Color
“The Cycling Reporter”
by Herbsaint Sazerac
CUT TO:
A touring bicycle with saddlebags and handlebar basket leans on
its kickstand at the highest viewpoint above the smog-shrouded
city. There is a clipboard steno pad mounted on the headlamp. A
pencil dangles from a string.
EXT. PUBLIC SQUARE. DAY
Shuttered shops, shuttered windows, empty street. A voice
(earnest, energetic, American) begins:
SAZERAC (V.O.)
Ennui rises suddenly on a Monday.
A stream of water surges from a storm sewer outlet-valve and
rushes along a cobblestone trough, gathering candy wrappers,
confetti, and cigarette butts into its current.
SAZERAC (V.O.)
Rusty water from the bouches de lavage
slooshes down the street gutters.
Clouds of white billow from a row of exhaust pipes above a
boulangerie as a tired worker cranks open its metal shopfront
gate.
SAZERAC (V.O.)
Woodsmoke puffs from a hungover baker’s
chimney.
Brassieres, slips, and stockings jolt incrementally into view on
a succession of pullied ropes. A cleaning lady with a cigarette
dangling from her lips leans out a window, beating a rug.
SAZERAC (V.O.)
Leathery charwomen put out the morning’s
underthings before the air infuses with
soot and sweat.
CUT TO:

12.
A tall, trim cyclist, youthful but not young, dressed in a black
beret with a black arm band. He holds up his pencil as he pedals
up the lane addressing camera warmly. He is Sazerac.
SAZERAC
Through the time machine of poetic
license, let us take a sight-seeing tour.
A day in Ennui over the course of 250
years.
CUT TO:
Sazerac’s P.O.V. with handlebars in frame.
SAZERAC
The great city began as a cluster of
tradesman’s villages.
INSERT:
A tire company road atlas of the sprawling city with encircling
ring-road and suburbs. Caption: ”Ennui-sur-Blasé, France.
Population: 955,000.”
SAZERAC (V.O.)
Only the names remain unchanged.
(Note: titles on the following before-and-after shots label
them, on the left, “The Past”, on the right, “The Future”.)
SPLIT-SCREEN:
On the left, stalls manned by filthy street urchins brushing and
polishing dozens of pairs of high-button shoes and boots; on the
right, a brightly-lit, two-star inn (Hôtel de Chaussures) with
automatic sliding-plexiglass door and a coin-operated shoeshine
machine in its vestibule.
SAZERAC (V.O.)
The Bootblack District.
On the left, two workers lugging a cart laden with stacked
masonry through a gaslit archway; on the right, an unsavory
nightclub with a glowing-cursive La Brique Rouge over its
facade.
SAZERAC (V.O.)
The Bricklayer’s Quarter.
On the left, a glass-roofed passage lined with dangling
carcasses (cows, pigs, horses); on the right, a subway entrance
labeled Abattoir.

13.
SAZERAC (V.O.)
Butcher’s Arcade.
On the left, a dead-end impasse sardine-packed with kleptos,
muggers, and hooligans; on the right, the same impasse sardinepacked with punk/new-wave drug addicts.
SAZERAC (V.O.)
Pick-pocket Cul-de-Sac.
MONTAGE:
An excavated construction site fifty feet deep with a parked
cement truck, stacked lumber/rebar on pallets, and dumpsters
filled with demolition-refuse. Sazerac stands on the floor of
the enormous yellow-dirt pit. The hook of a crane sways above
his head. He addresses camera again:
SAZERAC
On this site: a fabled market vending all
forms of victuals and comestibles under a
vast, glass-and-cast-iron canopy -demolished, as you can see, in favor of a
multi-level shopping center and parking
structure.
A rumbling train car enters a tunnel and stops.
SAZERAC (V.O.)
Like every living city, Ennui supports a
menagerie of vermin and scavengers.
A view from the train car window as, outside, emergency-lights
shift on, illuminating pipes and ledges trembling with hundreds
of chestnut rats. The passengers onboard stare into space,
unfazed. (Sazerac, one hand clasping a ceiling-strap and the
other steadying his bicycle, marvels at the astonishing
infestation.)
SAZERAC (V.O.)
The rats which colonized its subterranean
railroad.
A winding block of high-angled intersecting gables and parapets
vibrating with hundreds of mangy alley cats. (Sazerac, poking up
from a skylight window, sets out a saucer of milk.)
SAZERAC (V.O.)
The cats which colonized its slanty
rooftops.
A shallow, stone waterway only two meters wide zig-zagging the
gaps between disused brick storehouses. Workers criss-cross
flexing planks above the dark water. (Sazerac dips a mini-net

14.
from a pocket fishing-kit, scoops up a clump of wiggling
bootlace eels, and eats a handful, raw.)
SAZERAC (V.O.)
The anguillettes which colonized its
shallow drainage canals.
The previously-seen schoolboys, now crouched behind a parked
Citroën delivery van, eat smushed creampuffs, then spring upon
an old lady rolling a basket of groceries up the sidewalk and
poke balloon-sticks at her. She shouts, furious, and swats
violently with her cane until the boys scatter away.
SAZERAC (V.O.)
After receiving the Host, marauding
choirboys (half-drunk on the Blood of
Christ) stalk unwary pensioners and seek
havoc.
A terraced cemetery densely dotted with tombs and markers. At
the foot of a modest crypt (labeled, under a weeping angel,
“Lucette Sazerac, 1920-1955”), Sazerac arranges a little meal,
spread neatly across a rectangle of wax paper, and dines in
silence.
SAZERAC (V.O.)
A typical worker’s-lunch.
A bi-level street with a steep stone staircase leading from a
used bookstore down to a packed café surrounded by mopeds and
scooters.
SAZERAC (V.O.)
In the Flop Quarter: students. Hungry,
restless, reckless.
A hunchbacked, old man with a cane, a bag of medicine, and a
muffler around his neck waits next to a bench on a lonely
street. A bus arrives, the door opens, and the old man slowly
attempts to bring his foot up to the bottom step.
SAZERAC (V.O.)
In the Hovel District: old people. Old
people who have failed.
Sazerac grips a handrail at the rear of a Citroën diaper-service
delivery camionette as it pulls him swiftly down a congested
boulevard on his bicycle. He addresses camera again:
SAZERAC
The automobile: a mixed blessing. On the
one hand: the honking, skidding,
speeding, sputtering, and backfiring; the
emission of toxic fumes and filthy
(more)

15.
SAZERAC (cont'd)
exhaust-pollution; the dangerous
accidents; the constant traffic; the high
cost of -The road splits, unexpectedly, and Sazerac (shocked for an
instant) jangles down a short staircase, disappearing out of
frame, to an unseen crash-site below.
SAZERAC (V.O.)
Department of local statistics:
In a pouring rain: a long, blank, stone wall extending straight
up out of frame as far as visible. Painted on it:
“Prison/Asylum.”
SAZERAC (V.O.)
Average rainfall: 750mm.
In a falling snow: a pissoir consisting of a shoulder-level
metal privacy screen circling a dirty fountain. Painted on it:
“Public Urinal.”
SAZERAC (V.O.)
Average snowfall: 190,000 flakes.
A dockworker extends a long pole into the water and drags a facedown, floating corpse toward the shore.
SAZERAC (V.O.)
8.25 bodies are pulled from the Blasé
river each week (a figure which remains
consistent despite advances in health and
hygiene).
Well-dressed prostitutes, alone and in pairs, linger in their
habitual locations (under a streetlamp, next to a cigarette
machine, outside a strip-club stage door).
SAZERAC (V.O.)
As the sun sets, a medley of unregistered
streetwalkers and gigolos replaces the
day’s delivery boys and shopkeepers, and
an air of promiscuous calm saturates the
hour.
Competing performers (strongman, fire-eater, old woman warbling
a torch song) entertain a crowd along the riverside. In the
distance: laughter, breaking glass, a gunshot, a scream.
SAZERAC (V.O.)
What sounds will punctuate the night, and
what mysteries will they foretell?

16.
Sazerac appears to struggle for control of the bicycle as he
dodges potholes. He disappears behind a bookseller’s stall and
shouts in pain/confusion. His bicycle, surprisingly balanced,
immediately reemerges (at speed), now riderless.
SAZERAC (V.O.)
Perhaps the doubtful old maxim speaks
true:
Sazerac carries his bicycle over his shoulder down the sidewalk
as the sky darkens from blue to black and the lights of the
neighborhood twinkle on. The front wheel is bent and twisted
like a coat hanger.
SAZERAC (V.O.)
All grand beauties withhold their deepest
secrets.
INT. WRITER’S OFFICE (SAZERAC). DAY
On the floor: Sazerac repairs his upturned bicycle. In the
corner: the cheery writer reads a dictionary and eats peanuts.
At the desk: Howitzer scrutinizes a proof-print, muttering/
quoting under his breath:
HOWITZER
“Rats, vermin, gigolos, street
walkers...”
Howitzer interrupts himself, looking over his glasses:
HOWITZER
You don’t think it’s almost too seedy
this time? For decent people.
SAZERAC
(slightly offended)
No, I don’t. It’s supposed to be
charming.
Howitzer nods, unconvinced. He shuffles to another page and
resumes his muttering/quoting:
HOWITZER
“Pick-pockets, dead bodies, prisons,
urinals...”
Howitzer interrupts himself (looking over his glasses) again:
HOWITZER
You don’t want to add a flower shop or an
art museum? A pretty place of some kind.

17.
SAZERAC
(slightly more offended)
No, I don’t. I hate flowers.
Howitzer nods again, reluctant but resigned. Sazerac tightens a
spoke. Howitzer shrugs.
HOWITZER
You could cut the second half of the
second paragraph, by the way. You already
repeat it later.
Howitzer holds up the manuscript and points to a bracketed
passage. Sazerac, suspicious, squints. Pause.
OK.

SAZERAC

Howitzer crosses out the section of text with a blue pencil.

18.

Story #1
(pages 19 to 57)

19.
INSERT:
The proof-print of a biographical profile in the Arts and
Artists Section. A line-drawing depicts a painter’s easel.
TITLE:
Studio Portrait
“The Concrete Masterpiece”
by J.K.L. Berensen
(Note: the following chapter of the film is presented in black
and white with the exception of: 1. the latter-day cutaways to
Berensen’s talk at a museum in Kansas; and 2. Rosenthaler’s work
itself, which always appears in color within the black and white
scenes.)
INT. RECREATION ROOM. DAY
A white-washed hall the size of a squash court. Walls and
ceiling are stained with damp and mold and plastered in concreterender. Floors are stone, dirt, and mortar. A female model
(Simone, age thirty) stands naked on a table, legs apart, feet
flat, arms behind her back, frozen in an exceedingly
uncomfortable pose. Across the room: a shirtless painter (Moses
Rosenthaler, age fifty) in short-shorts and clogs works in oil,
briskly and diligently. His body is barrel-chested; his face is
thick-bearded; and, from head to toe, he is strikingly paintsplattered. (We see only the back of the medium-sized canvas.)
Rosenthaler pauses and examines his picture. He crosses the room
and stares, close-up, at Simone. He grips her arms and firmly
draws them back, taut. She frowns slightly. He daubs paint onto
the side of her stomach with his brush. He blots color from his
palette then daubs at her stomach again. He smudges the paint
into her skin with his fingers. He studies the two pigments (oil
paint and human flesh). Simone narrows her eyes and bites her
lip. Rosenthaler blots to adjust the chroma once more -- but
just before he can daub at Simone a third time, she slaps him
hard across the face. Rosenthaler recoils, stumbling, scampers
across the floor, and returns to his canvas where he immediately
resumes his efforts.
Simone holds her pose.
A loud bell rings, a loud buzzer buzzes. Rosenthaler immediately
lowers his brush and begins to organize his paints and
turpentines into a tool box. Simone disappears behind a wooden
panel and pulls a garment down from a hook. Rosenthaler
disappears behind a storage locker, pulls off his short-shorts,
and washes himself with an industrial hose and scrub-brush.

20.
(Note: the splattered-paint does not come off; in fact,
Rosenthaler always appears fully splattered, at all times, in
some form of pigment or medium.)
Simone re-emerges, now dressed in the uniform of a prison guard
with black baton swinging at her waist. She finishes fixing her
hair and tightens her belt. Rosenthaler re-emerges, now dressed
in a prisoner’s tunic with text stenciled on the back: Condamné
Psychopathe. He finishes drying himself with a toweling-rag.
Simone slips Rosenthaler’s arms into a straitjacket, clips the
bindings, clanks open an iron-barred door, and directs the
patient/inmate/artist out of the room. The door closes, locks,
and latches. Silence.
The camera dollies across the empty space, past the table, the
wooden panel, the storage locker, to finally reveal the recto of
Rosenthaler’s unfinished painting: a thickly encrusted, oily
impasto; almost totally abstract; flesh from the tube sculpted
and schmeared with red, orange, and yellow skylight; slashed on
one side with a black, blue, and purple border of tangled barbedwire and shattering glass; Simone, unrecognizable, is
nevertheless present in every brushstroke.
INT. MUSEUM AUDITORIUM. NIGHT
The spotlit proscenium of a modernist assembly hall. Projected
on a screen above the stage: a black and white mug-shot/slide of
Rosenthaler, paint-splattered. A woman of-a-certain-age
(American, hair-sprayed coiffure, couture dress) stands at the
lectern with a wired remote-switcher clasped in her hand. She is
poised, enthusiastic, and vibrantly engaging. She is J.K.L.
Berensen.
An attentive audience listens in the dark.
BERENSEN
We take as the subject of tonight’s
lecture the great painter at the vanguard
of the French Splatter-school Actiongroup, Mr. Moses Rosenthaler. Widely
celebrated, as you know, for the bold,
dramatic style and colossal scale of his
middle-period -- in particular, of
course, the polyptych-tableaux known as
“Ten Reinforced Cement Aggregate (Loadbearing) Murals” -- he remains, in my
opinion, the most eloquent (and,
certainly, the loudest) artistic voice of
his rowdy generation.
Berensen clicks the remote-switcher, and further black and white
slides flip into view showing a panorama-view of ten panels,
each sixteen feet tall, which continue and expand the themes of

21.
thickly encrusted flesh, tangled barbed-wire, shattering glass,
etc.
BERENSEN
How does this pivotal piece come to find
its way into its unique position as a
permanent installation here at the
Clampette Collection? The story begins in
a mess hall.
INT. PRISON CAFETERIA. DAY
A catwalk around the upper perimeter of a cinder-block lunchroom
which serves as the viewing platform for a presentation of
rudimentary, primitive artworks: a fingerpainting of a tree, a
papier mâché cactus, a wastebasket fashioned from bound twigs,
etc. -- plus Rosenthaler’s portrait of Simone, now complete and
varnished. A small number of prisoners and guards wanders from
piece to piece, perusing and puttering. One prisoner, however,
appears to be utterly transfixed by the painting (mentioned
above) under his inspection. He is forty, clean-shaven, well
groomed; wavy, silver hair, sharply parted; prison uniform, neat
and pressed. He is Julian Cadazio.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
The exhibition “Ashtrays, Pots, and
Macramé” (a group show of handicrafts by
amateur artisans incarcerated in the
lunatic section of the Ennui Prison/
Asylum) might, perhaps, have been omitted
from the annals of art history had it not
been for the inclusion in its number of a
small painting by Mr. Rosenthaler (who
was, at that time, serving a fifty year
sentence for the crime of doublehomicide), and the observation of that
work by a fellow inmate, the Levantine
art dealer Mr. Julian Cadazio (who, by
fateful coincidence, happened to be
imprisoned in the adjoining annex on a
charge of second-degree sales tax
evasion).
Cadazio signals to a nearby, pot-bellied, wall-eyed guard:
Guard.

CADAZIO

Cadazio’s manner lacks any inkling of subservience. The guard
reluctantly makes the effort to look up. He waits. Cadazio’s
eyes have not left the canvas, but in one extended hand: there
is a gold foil enveloped marron-glacé in a fluted paper candycup.

22.
CADAZIO
Who painted this picture?
Pause. The guard slowly approaches, snatches the bonbon into his
mouth, peers at a small label next to the painting, then studies
a corresponding list.
GUARD
Citizen 7524.
CADAZIO
I believe that unit designates Maximum
Security for the Demented and Deranged.
Are you able to provide me an escort and
a Friendly Visit Stamp? For immediate
use.
The guard scoffs -- then hesitates. In Cadazio’s re-extended
hand: three more marron-glacés.
INT. LOCK-UP CORRIDOR. DAY
Cadazio follows the guard down a wide passage segmented by
consecutive, iron-barred gates.
INT. CELL BLOCK. DAY
A tiny bedroom of extreme austerity: burlap hammock, cracked and
yellowed ceramic washbasin, coiled radiator in the corner,
padded walls. Rosenthaler and Cadazio face each other seated on
low footstools. Simone stands outside the cage-door with a ring
of skeleton keys in her hand.
CADAZIO
“Simone, Naked, Cell Block J. Hobbyroom.” I wish to buy it.
Rosenthaler reacts subtly but at some length (surprise,
suspicion, confusion, a hint of sad pride), looks to Simone,
then says to Cadazio simply:
Why?

ROSENTHALER

CADAZIO
(simply)
Because I like it.
ROSENTHALER
(simply)
It’s not for sale.

23.
CADAZIO
(dismissive)
Yes, it is.
ROSENTHALER
(uncertain)
No, it’s not.
CADAZIO
(certain)
Yes, it is. All artists sell all their
work. It’s what makes you an artist. If
you don’t plan to sell it, don’t paint
it. The question is: what’s your price?
Cadazio stares hard into Rosenthaler’s wounded eyes. Rosenthaler
stares back at Cadazio’s poker-face -- then looks to Simone
again before he mumbles:
ROSENTHALER
Fifty cigarettes.
(on second thought)
Actually, make it seventy-five.
CADAZIO
(frowns)
Why do you keep looking at that guard?
Pause. Rosenthaler says inevitably:
ROSENTHALER
She’s Simone.

Ah.

CADAZIO
(hesitates)

Cadazio slowly turns to Simone. Simone looks back at him evenly.
Cadazio nods, looks back to Rosenthaler, and says crisply:
CADAZIO
I don’t want to buy this important piece
for fifty cigarettes -ROSENTHALER
Seventy-five.
CADAZIO
-- or seventy-five of prison currency. I
want to pay you 250,000 francs in legal
French tender. Do we agree? On the sale.
Rosenthaler’s eyes widen. He and Cadazio both now look to
Simone. Simone, mightily impressed, says softly:

24.

Uh-huh.

SIMONE

Cadazio digs into his pockets for a handful of coins and
cigarettes plus his last marron-glacé as he explains:
CADAZIO
I can only offer a deposit of -(counting coins)
-- 83 centimes, one candied-chestnut, and
four cigarettes (everything I have), at
this present moment; however, if you’ll
accept my signatory-voucher, I assure
you, a check for the outstanding balance
will be remitted to your account within
ninety days. Where do you bank? Never
mind.
Cadazio scribbles on a business card and hands it to
Rosenthaler. Rosenthaler jabs one cigarette into his mouth,
passes the second to Cadazio, sticks the spares under the
elastic of his sock -- then presents the sweet to Simone. She
eats, they smoke. Cadazio asks bluntly:
CADAZIO
How’d you learn to do it, by the way?
Paint this kind of picture. Also: who did
you murder (and how crazy are you,
really)? I need background information so
we can do a monograph. It makes you more
important.
(expansively)
Who are you -Cadazio leans forward and reads from a tin dog-tag hanging from
a string around Rosenthaler’s neck:
CADAZIO
-- Moses Rosenthaler?
CUT TO:
The museum auditorium. Berensen is at her lectern. On the
screen: a turn-of-the-century photograph of a bearded, well-todo man seated bareback on a massive stallion alongside a very
small boy on a very small pony.
BERENSEN
Born rich, the son of a Jewish-Mexican
horse rancher, Miguel Sebastien Maria
Moisés de Rosenthaler trained at the
École des Antiquités at significant
family expense; but, by the end of his
youth, he had shed all the luxuries of
(more)

25.
BERENSEN (cont'd)
his comfortable background and replaced
them with:
MONTAGE:
A filthy garret apartment with skylight windows, four unmade
beds (one occupied by an unconscious, face down woman), and
three artists at easels, all painting still-lifes. Among them is
young Rosenthaler (played by a younger actor), already paintsplattered (though in softer hues), holding a bottle of beer in
the same hand as his brush.
Squalor.

BERENSEN (V.O.)

A footbridge busy with tourists. Young Rosenthaler paints the
river view while holding a bottle of wine in the same hand as
his brush. A passer-by drops a coin into his upturned hat.
Hunger.

BERENSEN (V.O.)

A boxcar clacking along a curving track above a sunflower field.
Young Rosenthaler, in hobo rags, paints a flea-bitten dog while
holding a flask of whiskey in the same hand as his brush.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
Loneliness.
The terrace of a white stone desert fort. Young Rosenthaler, in
khakis and kepi, paints a seated officer while holding a snifter
of cognac in the same hand as his brush. A whizzing bullet
pierces the canvas, and the company scrambles for weapons and
cover -- except Rosenthaler, who continues calmly at his canvas.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
Physical danger.
A weedy cloister with stone walls and scattered pebbles. Young
Rosenthaler, naked, his dark-shadowed eyes bloodshot and
deranged, paints a self-portrait in a hand mirror while holding
a beaker of eau-de-vie in the same hand as his brush.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
Mental illness.
A dockside tavern. Young Rosenthaler, in sleeveless undershirt,
paints a picture of an absinthe bottle while holding a glass of
its contents in the same hand as his brush.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
And, of course, criminal violence.

26.
At the other end of the bar, two hulking, smirking bartenders
lean on the counter in front of a weathered, elderly man,
needling him. The old man is stoic. Young Rosenthaler watches
like an animal. Under his breath, almost inaudibly but
unmistakably: he growls. The camera dollies to a kitchen door
porthole where a scullery boy renders (with a meat-saw) the
hanging carcass of a slaughtered calf.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
He did not pick up a brush during the
first decade of his long prison sentence.
A padded prison cell. Young Rosenthaler, splattered in machinegrease, pours a single shot from a bottle labeled Mouthwash de
Menthe (150 proof). Off-screen: a latch clanks. Young
Rosenthaler looks up. He rises from his stool and makes way as
his older self, identically dressed and splattered, enters and
(with a gentle acknowledgement, eye to eye, of the boy he once
was) takes the seat. Young Rosenthaler removes the dog-tag from
around his own neck and loops it over older Rosenthaler’s head.
Young Rosenthaler exits. Older Rosenthaler sips the mouthwash
and stares at the blank walls.
TITLE:
Year 11, Day 1
INT. CRAFTS STUDIO. DAY
A basement classroom. Simone sits at a metal desk next to the
door. Fifteen prisoners shuffle past her and file into rows of
benches behind footstools prepared with various pottery-making
supplies. Rosenthaler enters last. He pauses in front of Simone
and says quietly:
ROSENTHALER
Permission to sign up for Activityprivileges, gardienne.
SIMONE
(without looking up)
You have a Registration chit?
ROSENTHALER
(hesitates)
This thing?
Rosenthaler digs into his pockets. He produces a small, thin
ticket and holds it up, uncertain. Simone tears the corner and
gives it back to him. As Rosenthaler begins to move toward his
seat -- Simone stops him with an announcement:

27.
SIMONE
Attention. We have a new convict joining
us today. Citizen 7524, address the
class.
Rosenthaler, startled, speaks under his breath:
ROSENTHALER
What do you mean?
SIMONE
Tell the group about yourself.
ROSENTHALER
I don’t want to do that.
SIMONE
It’s mandatory.
ROSENTHALER
They know me already.
SIMONE
That’s not the point.
ROSENTHALER
I didn’t prepare any speech.
SIMONE
(an official order)
Say something.
Rosenthaler looks stricken. Simone nods for him to speak. He
turns to the room. He gathers his thoughts. Finally, he begins:
ROSENTHALER
I’ve been here 3647 days and nights.
Another 14,603 to go. I drink fourteen
pints of mouthwash-rations per week. At
that rate, I’m going to poison myself to
death before I ever see the world again,
which makes me feel -- very sad. I’ve got
to change my program. I’ve got to go in a
new direction. Anything I can do to keep
my hands busy: I’m going to do it.
Otherwise, I think maybe it’s going to be
a suicide. That’s why I signed up for
Clay Pottery and Basket Weaving. My name
is Moses.
Troubled convicts (shorn heads, crooked noses, combat scars)
stare at Rosenthaler. His hard face is streaked with tears.
Simone says simply:

28.
SIMONE
Take a pew.
Simone points. Rosenthaler looks to: a hunk of wet clay on a
footstool in front of an empty seat at the back of the room.
CUT TO:
Five minutes later. The entire class of convicts has gathered to
watch, intrigued, as Rosenthaler briskly, nimbly, expertly
sculpts. Rosenthaler pauses to study his work. He twists the
sculpture around for everyone to see.
INSERT:
A hasty but magnificent vase with bas-relief depicting a bouquet
of wildflowers with wind-blown petals floating in the air and a
crane standing on one leg. Simone descends into the shot and
studies the vessel -- impressed, then suddenly and deeply moved.
Rosenthaler asks softly:
ROSENTHALER (O.S.)
What’s your name, gardienne?
Simone looks up to Rosenthaler. Her lips move, but her voice is
inaudible under Berensen’s:
BERENSEN (V.O.)
Certain women do gravitate toward
incarcerated men. It’s a recognized
condition.
Rosenthaler’s rough, clay-splattered hand enters frame with a
blade of straw pinched between two fingers, and, in one rapid,
sure effort: cuts a beautiful, extravagantly-filigreed letter
“S” into the wet clay on a cloud above the etched flora.
CUT TO:
Berensen at her lectern.
BERENSEN
Something about the captivity of others
enhances the experience of their own
freedom. I assure you, it’s erotic. Look
at her, by the way.
Berensen remote-switches through a succession of black and white
slides of Simone: at fourteen, with numerous siblings, reaping
in a wheat field; at sixteen, pregnant, plucking a goose; at
eighteen, not pregnant, skinning a rabbit; at twenty, in a
nurse’s uniform on a battlefield with soldiers advancing and
retreating in the background.

29.
(Note: in each of these images, all other subjects, human and
animal, are blurry; only Simone holds completely still for the
photograph.)
BERENSEN
Born into quasi-serfdom. Sixteen brothers
and sisters. Illiterate until she was
twenty. Now a woman of considerable
property. Radiant.
Paused on the screen: an image of a somewhat younger, paintsplattered, naked Berensen caught reaching for a dressing gown.
Berensen finally notices and mutters, startled:
BERENSEN
Good God. Wrong slide. (That’s me.)
Berensen remote-switches back to Simone at eighteen, briskly recomposes herself, and carries on:
BERENSEN
Simone, of course, refused all
Rosenthaler’s entreaties of marriage
(which, we are told, were frequent and
marvelously enthusiastic).
INT. LAUNDRY ROOM. NIGHT
Midnight. Rosenthaler and Simone, motionless and naked, recline
on a heap of bed linens and dishrags in a deep pile on the
floor. Berensen continues:
BERENSEN (V.O.)
She insists to this day (I’m going to
quote from her finely-written memoir): “I
never belonged to Moses Rosenthaler. Not
for a single day, not for a single hour.
I merely bore him a warm, deeply
affectionate esteem.”
In the meantime, Rosenthaler has been searching for the words to
begin the scene:
ROSENTHALER
I want to say it as simple as I can. To
try to shape it into words. The feelings
in my heart.
Simone and Rosenthaler say simultaneously:
ROSENTHALER
I love you.

SIMONE
I don’t love you.

30.

What?

ROSENTHALER
(frowning)

SIMONE
I don’t love you.
ROSENTHALER
(hesitates)
Already?
SIMONE
(blankly)
Already what?
ROSENTHALER
Already how do you know that? How can you
be sure? So quick.
SIMONE
(with certainty)
I’m sure.
ROSENTHALER
(wounded)
Ouch. That hurts me. The cruelty of it.
The cold-bloodedness.
SIMONE
You said what you wanted to say. I tried
to stop you. That’s it.
ROSENTHALER
I said part of what I wanted to say. I
was in the middle of it. There’s more.
Silence. Rosenthaler attempts to propose marriage:
Will --

No.

ROSENTHALER

SIMONE
(interrupting)

ROSENTHALER
Will you --

No.

SIMONE
(interrupting)

ROSENTHALER
Will you marry --

31.
SIMONE
(interrupting)
Should I put you in your straitjacket,
take you back to your cell, and lock you
up again?
Rosenthaler sighs. He digs out a bottle of mouthwash from the
tangled linens and takes a sip. Simone frowns. Rosenthaler
explains:
ROSENTHALER
It’s diluted.
Pause. Simone produces a child’s sock from a knitted sack and
begins to darn it. Rosenthaler looks up and stares into the
camera. His face lightens.
CUT TO:
Rosenthaler’s P.O.V. of the ceiling. Purple soot blackens its
edges and corners. Nicotine yellows its cracked plaster. Rusty
water stains speckle all across in faded flesh-tones. Decades of
pollution and decay meld into a spectacular visual pandemonium.
Rosenthaler says, transported:
ROSENTHALER
I need art supplies (canvas, stretchers,
paints, brushes, turpentine).
SIMONE
(continuing to darn)
What do you want to paint?
ROSENTHALER
The future.
Rosenthaler turns to look into Simone’s eyes. He says
profoundly:
ROSENTHALER
Which is you.
CUT TO:
Berensen at her lectern again.
BERENSEN
Widely not considered a great
connoisseur, Julian Cadazio,
nevertheless, had an eye for something,
and he did us all a very good turn when,
the hour he was released from prison --

32.
EXT. ART GALLERY. NIGHT
A storefront situated on a brief cul-de-sac over the river.
Beveled letters above the door identify it as: “Cadazio Uncles
and Nephew Galerie (Landscapes, Still-lifes, and Objets d’Art)”.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
-- he summoned his uncles to the gallery
on the Esplanade des Charpentiers.
INT. ART GALLERY. NIGHT
A showroom one flight up from the street. Summery landscapes on
one wall. Kitchen-table still-lifes on another. Bronze heads on
pedestals. Cadazio stands next to an easel which displays a
hidden artwork cloaked in velvet. He addresses his uncles Nick
and Joe.
CADAZIO
We’re done with flowers and fruit bowls.
We’re finished with beaches and
seascapes. We’re getting out of armor,
rugs, and tapestries, too. I found
something new. (In prison.)
Cadazio unveils the familiar canvas (”Simone, Naked, etc.”). His
uncles immediately produce various corrective lenses
(spectacles, monocle, a magnifying glass) and stare for a long
moment. Finally:
UNCLE NICK
Modern art?
CADAZIO
(profoundly)
Modern art. Our specialty, starting now.
UNCLE JOE
(befuddled)
I don’t get it.
CADAZIO
(obviously)
Of course, you don’t.
UNCLE JOE
Am I too old?
CADAZIO
(naturally)
Of course, you are.

33.
UNCLE NICK
(skeptical)
Why is this good?
CADAZIO
(confident)
It isn’t good. Wrong idea.
UNCLE JOE
(bristling)
That’s no answer.
CADAZIO
(with satisfaction)
My point. You see the girl in it?

No.

UNCLE JOE/UNCLE NICK
(simultaneously)

CADAZIO
(definitively)
Trust me, she’s there.
As Cadazio goes to a cabinet of shallow file-drawers, opens the
top one, and withdraws a beige envelope, he continues:
CADAZIO
One way to tell if a modern artist
actually knows what he’s doing is to get
him to paint you a horse or a flower or a
sinking battleship or something that’s
actually supposed to look like the thing
it’s actually supposed to look like. Can
he do it? Look at this:
Cadazio opens the envelope and produces:
INSERT:
A charcoal drawing of a bird, simple and exquisite.
Uncle Nick holds the picture carefully by the edges and studies
it. Cadazio snaps his fingers.
CADAZIO
Drawn in forty-five seconds right in
front of me with a burnt matchstick.
UNCLE NICK
(now genuinely impressed)
A perfect sparrow. That’s excellent. May
I keep it?

34.
CADAZIO
Don’t be stupid. Of course, not. The
point is: he could paint this -After a brief, delicate tug-of-war, Uncle Nick, reluctantly,
releases the drawing back to Cadazio.
CADAZIO
-- beautifully, if he wanted to, but he
thinks this -Cadazio points to “Simone”.
CADAZIO
-- is better.
Cadazio is almost surprised to realize that he, honestly, means
the following:
CADAZIO
And I think I sort of agree with him.
The uncles examine the canvas, touching it, smelling it, etc.
Cadazio says with finality:
CADAZIO
“Simone, Naked, Cell Block J. Hobby-room”
is probably a masterpiece worth a
significant, even exorbitant sum of money
-- but not yet.
Uncle Nick folds his hands and nods. He says mystically:
UNCLE NICK
The desire must be created.
Cadazio nods, also mystical. Silence. Uncle Joe blurts:
UNCLE JOE
How long’s he in for?
INT. HEARING CHAMBER. DAY
A court of law. Three magistrates on one side of an elevated
altar watch as Simone escorts Rosenthaler (in straitjacket and
leg-irons) from a side door to a central chair. She padlocks him
to the armrest. Rosenthaler sits, wary, facing his judges. Ten
rows of benches behind him are empty with the exception of the
front, occupied by Cadazio and his uncles. Simone, on a stool at
Rosenthaler’s side, sets to work darning another child’s sock as
the proceedings begin:

35.
CHIEF MAGISTRATE
A new petition for special parole board
review has been filed on behalf of
Citizen 7524 in relation to the crimes of
Assault, Battery, and Violent
Dismemberment. Mr. Rosenthaler, why
should we put you back on the street?
ROSENTHALER
(softly)
Because it was an accident, your honor. I
didn’t intend to kill anybody.
The Chief Magistrate raises an eyebrow. He says evenly:
CHIEF MAGISTRATE
You decapitated two bartenders with a
meat-saw.
Rosenthaler hesitates. He confers briefly with Simone at a
whisper. He nods and clarifies:
ROSENTHALER
The first bartender was an accident. The
second was self-defense.
The magistrates murmur. Simone resumes her darning.
CHIEF MAGISTRATE
Be that as it may: what demonstration of
genuine remorse or (at the very least)
regret can you offer? For beheading these
men.
Rosenthaler scratches his chin. He looks out the window. A bird
of prey snatches a white dove out of the sky in a puff of
feathers. Rosenthaler says, sincerely and genuinely apologetic,
almost inaudible:
ROSENTHALER
They had it coming.
CHIEF MAGISTRATE
(sharply)
I beg your pardon?
Cadazio interrupts loudly, more or less completely drowning out
Rosenthaler as he repeats himself:
ROSENTHALER
They had it coming?

Forgive me.

CADAZIO

The Chief Magistrate frowns. Rosenthaler turns. Simone pauses
her darning. Cadazio, unexpectedly: has raised his hand.

36.
CADAZIO
Is there a part of this ritual where you
ask if anybody has something to say
before it’s too late? Like at a wedding.
No.

CHIEF MAGISTRATE

CADAZIO
I’ll be brief.

Cadazio’s uncles look uneasy but intrigued as Cadazio crawls
over a partition (slipping slightly as he struggles to get his
leg over) and “approaches the bench”. The magistrates make no
effort to impede him -- though their expressions suggest extreme
disapproval. Cadazio launches into a persuasive spiel:
CADAZIO
We all know this man is a murderer.
Totally guilty of first-degree homicide,
anyway you slice it. That’s a given.
However: he’s, also, that rare, once-in-ageneration guy you hear about but never
get the chance to discover for yourself:
an artistic genius. Surely, there ought
to be a double-standard for this sort of
predicament. (Supposedly, he’s a
psychotic, by the way. That’s not his
fault.) Respectfully, I submit: maybe we
could think up some other way to punish
him? I’m looking for the wiggle-room.
Cadazio looks to his uncles. They nod, concerned and serious.
The magistrates are a stone wall.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
Rosenthaler’s right to petition for
parole was permanently revoked for the
duration of his sentence.
Simone is already putting away her darning. Uncle Joe interjects
from the stalls:
UNCLE JOE
No further questions.
CUT TO:
Berensen at her lectern again.
BERENSEN
Nevertheless, Cadazio and his uncles were
unanimous in their decision to promote
the artist as his exclusive brokers
throughout the free world.
INSERT:

37.
A promotional poster advertising a public debate in a town hall.
Across the top: a photograph of ”Simone, Naked, etc.” Across the
bottom: “The Next Mona Lisa?”
BERENSEN (V.O.)
“Simone” traveled far and wide.
MONTAGE:
The painting is shown on display in various exhibition spaces
around the world. In each location, a violent riot is inprogress among art patrons in dinner jackets and evening gowns.
First: a municipal meeting hall in France. Champagne bottles fly
through the air, shattering and exploding.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
The Ennui Salon.
Next: a vast conservatory in England. Punching, choking,
shouting, screaming, bleeding.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
The Royal Exposition.
Finally: a tent at a middle-American harvest-festival with
carnival rides, cotton candy, shooting gallery, etc. One group
of attendees attempts to light the venue on fire while another
group resists them.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
The International Pavilion at the
Liberty, Kansas State Fair (which was
very nearly burned to the ground).
Cadazio and his uncles watch the destructive skirmish, eyes
bright, gleeful.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
In short, the picture was a sensation.
INT. AUCTION HOUSE. DAY
On the block: Rosenthaler’s perfect sparrow. Paddles rise and
fall in rapid succession as an auctioneer, startled but
enthusiastic, tries to keep up with exuberant bidding.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
(Even the artist's all-but-forgotten,
earlier work inspired wildly robust sales
on the secondary market.)
Additional lots wait in the wings: Rosenthaler’s previously-seen
still life, river view, flea-bitten dog, self-portrait, absinthe

38.
bottle, and seated officer at desert fort (bullet hole still
intact).
CUT TO:
Berensen at her lectern again.
BERENSEN
Meanwhile, Rosenthaler continued to work
in confinement. Strikingly, the artist
favored raw materials sourced exclusively
from within the prison/asylum domain:
MONTAGE:
The camera shoots through an expansive pane of glass which fills
the frame as Rosenthaler paints directly onto it, brushing and
slashing in aggressive bursts (and jump-cuts), one color at a
time. First: a dusty, pale orange.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
Powdered eggs.
Next: a thick, dark red.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
Pigeon blood.
Next: an oily black.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
Shackle grease.
Next: shades of dirty ash.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
Coal, cork, and dung.
Next: a waxy, nearly fluorescent, slightly sudsy yellow.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
Bright yellow scullery-soap.
Finally: a lukewarm porridge.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
And fresh cream of millet as a binding
agent.
MONTAGE:
A naked Simone strikes various poses which appear to be (and, in
fact, without the aid of visual effects, are) physically

39.
impossible. First: body twisted like a corkscrew, arms doublejointed akimbo, illuminated from a high window.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
Simone liked to stand still.
Next: flamingo-legged, fingers laced palms up, underlit by a
flickering oil lamp.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
Indeed, she was Olympian in her ability
to hold extremely challenging positions
for extended periods of time.
Next: seated on a steaming radiator in thinker pose, puffs of
breath visible in the frigid air.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
She exhibited very little vulnerability
to extremes of heat or cold.
Next: in close-up, calmly ignoring a mosquito biting her cheek.
It takes off, leaving only a tiny dot of blood which Simone
wipes away with her pinky, perfectly clean.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
After even the most adverse forms of
exposure, her skin remained unburned,
unblemished, un-goose-pimpled.
Next: hanging upside down from a ceiling pipe in a frozen
butterfly stroke.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
Another tidbit: she genuinely enjoyed the
smell of turpentine -Finally: cleaning splattered paint from her arms and legs with
steel wool and distilled acid.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
-- and, in later years, actually wore it
in the application of her toilet. (It’s
absolutely true. You could smell the
solvent on her body.)
INT. EXECUTION THEATRE. DAY
A small, round chamber as tall as a silo. At a grated landing
mounted to the wall: an open, iron clad hatch. The latch has
been pried open, and the door handle lies below in a pile of
splinters and screws. Narrow steps wind along the wall ten feet
down to a disapproving guard with his hands in his pockets. He

40.
stands next to a control panel featuring a prominent throwswitch.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
She was more than a muse.
Rosenthaler says grimly, off-screen:
ROSENTHALER (O.S.)
Throw the switch.
The guard snorts dismissively. On the other side of the room:
Rosenthaler is seated in an electric chair with a metal headband
clamped around his forehead and leather bindings belted around
his wrists. He explodes:
ROSENTHALER
Throw the switch, you cocksucker!
Simone appears in the doorway. She frowns.
SIMONE
What’s wrong with you? Go back to work.
Rosenthaler looks slightly guilty -- but defiant. He insists:
ROSENTHALER
I can’t. I won’t. It’s too hard. It’s
torture. I’m -- I’m -- literally: I’m a
tortured artist.
Simone’s eyes flash down to a half-finished bottle of mouthwash
tucked discreetly next to one of the legs of the electric chair.
She says gently:
Poor baby.

SIMONE

Simone descends the staircase as she says calmly to the guard:
Get out.

SIMONE

The guard exits. Simone stares at Rosenthaler, curious.
Rosenthaler stares back at her, bitter. Simone reaches for the
throw-switch and flips it for a fraction of a second. There is a
powerful clack, and Rosenthaler takes a 10,000-volt zap to the
body. His hair sparks, his body spasms, and smoke comes out of
his ears. After a brief moment of frozen astonishment, trembling
and smoldering, he glares at Simone, wary. Simone shrugs.
SIMONE
Is that what you want?

41.
Silence. Simone approaches and stops in front of Rosenthaler
with her hands on her hips. She says, matter-of-fact:
SIMONE
I grew up on a farm. We didn’t write
poetry. We didn’t make music. We didn’t
sculpt statues or paint pictures. I
learned arts and crafts technique from
books in this prison’s library, and I
teach them as a volunteer. I don’t know
what you know. I only know what you are.
I can see you’re suffering. I can see
it’s difficult. It might even get worse -but then it’s going to get better. You’re
going to figure out whatever your problem
is. (What’s your problem?)
ROSENTHALER
(crippled)
I don’t know what to paint.
SIMONE
You’re going to figure out what to paint,
and you’re going to believe in yourself
(like I do), and you’re going to struggle
-- and then, in the spring, or maybe the
summer, or possibly the fall, or, at the
very latest, the winter: this new work
will be complete. That’s what’s going to
happen.
Simone holds the throw-switch again -- Rosenthaler flinches -as she asks:
SIMONE
Unless you still prefer to execute
yourself right now?
Rosenthaler slips his hands out the bindings and takes off the
metal headband, then ascends the steps and goes out the door.
Simone returns to the control panel and clicks off the power.
The electric chair jiggles and rattles as it hums down to
silence.
CUT TO:
Berensen at her lectern again.
BERENSEN
The French Splatter-school Action-group.
Berensen brings up a slide of a gathering of paint-splattered
men (burly, grumpy, unwashed, disheveled, stylish) and one woman
(small-boned but indestructible) posing for a photograph on the

42.
street below a prison window. Rosenthaler, inside, smiles
broadly.
BERENSEN
A dynamic, talented, lusty, slovenly,
alcoholic, violent pack of creative
savages. They inspired and, often,
personally attacked each other for two
decades and more. (I’ll have my drink
now.)
Berensen reaches into a nook in the lectern and produces a small
thermos, which she empties, neat, into a short glass. She comes
out from behind her lectern and stands near the edge of the
stage, closer to the audience, sipping as she continues more
intimately:
BERENSEN
Remember, in those days, as you know, it
was much more socially acceptable for a
painter or sculptor to hit another fellow
with a chair (or even a brick) or walk
around with a black eye or a broken tooth
and so on. Indeed, I’m jumping ahead,
but, in my own experience, Rosenthaler
could be quite unpredictably impulsive,
meaning, I refer to the pigment-locker
below his studio on the Boulevard des
Plombiers, on one occasion, he grabbed me
and put me in there, and, inappropriately, sort of, tried to -(stage-whispering)
-- fuck me against the wall in the corner
of that pigment-locker. He was crazy
(officially certified).
Berensen turns away and circles back behind her lectern. She
refers briefly to her notes, then presses on:
BERENSEN
The Cadazios, of course, represented them
all.
EXT. COMPOUND ENTRANCE. DAY
Two guards slowly slide open a pair of high, steel-clad, spiketopped, oak doors revealing Cadazio and his uncles waiting on
the road outside. In the reverse angle: two other guards slowly
slide open another pair of identical doors, revealing
Rosenthaler (shackles/straitjacket) waiting with Simone in the
recess court inside. The two opposing parties advance to meet at
a locked, iron-barred gate in the middle.
TITLE:

43.

Three Years Later
Cadazio faces Rosenthaler, arms crossed, steely. Uncle Joe
stands behind him. A servant provides a chair for Uncle Nick who
sits with arms propped on the top of his cane. Cadazio addresses
Rosenthaler crisply:
CADAZIO
It’s three years later. We’ve made you
the most famous painter alive based on
one small, scribbly, over-rated picture.
You’re an art school course. You’re an
encyclopedia entry. Even your disciples
have won and squandered multiple
fortunes. Yet you refuse to show us so
much as a sketch or study for a single
new piece during this entire, protracted
period. How long are we meant to wait?
Well, don’t answer, because we’re not
asking. We already printed the
invitations.
Uncle Joe holds up a letter-press card on thick, gold-trimmed
stock embossed luxuriously with scarlet script.
CADAZIO
We’re coming in. All of us. The
collectors. The critics. Even your secondrate imitators (we represent) who suck up
to you and smuggle you goodies and
probably turn out to be better than you
are. The bribes, alone, are going to be
outrageous, as these guards can assure
you. But we’re going to pay them. So
finish it, whatever it is. The show’s in
two weeks.
Cadazio holds up two fingers. Rosenthaler grits his teeth,
stained and chipped. Once again, softly: he growls. (Another
guard, armed with a carbine, watches from a turret above.)
Cadazio retreats slightly while attempting to mask his
instinctive fear. He points to Simone:
CADAZIO
She thinks it’s ready, by the way.
Rosenthaler flinches, surprised. He frowns and turns to Simone.
Simone nods.
SIMONE
It’s ready.

44.
Rosenthaler looks betrayed. Simone looks nonplussed. Cadazio
looks vindicated. Rosenthaler murmurs, vaguely optimistic:
ROSENTHALER
I could use another year.
Cadazio screams in frustration, and his uncles throw their hands
up into the air, grip their hair, close their eyes, shake their
heads, etc.
CUT TO:
Berensen at her lectern again.
BERENSEN
My employer, at that time, received the
intriguing summons by rapid-priority
wire. I refer, of course, to Upshur “Maw”
Clampette.
Berensen brings up a triptych of black and white slides: one
shows a landmark, modernist residence resembling a doorstop
which overlooks a corn field; the other two show vitrines filled
with Ancient Greek, Roman, and Egyptian idols, tools, and
vessels.
BERENSEN
Astute collector of antiquities.
Berensen remote-switches to another triptych: one shows a closer
view of the same house; the other two show rooms filled with
cubist and surrealist paintings and sculptures -- and the
visiting artists who created them.
BERENSEN
Great friend to the avant-garde.
Berensen remote-switches to a slide of a pioneer-handsome, sixtyyear-old woman, slightly stout, perfect carriage, ebony black
eyes, dressed and done in the most highly refined,
sophisticated, continental style. She is outdoors, seated in an
armchair shaped like a lobster. She is Upshur “Maw” Clampette. A
water tower in the background reads: Liberty, KS.
BERENSEN
Her collection, even in its infancy, was
well-known and important (as was her
residence, Ingo Steen’s first American
commission, known, informally, as the
“Doorstop House”). It was my duty and, I
may say, my privilege to catalogue,
archive, and advise -- although she did
whatever the hell she wanted no matter
what you told her, anyway.

45.
Berensen clicks off the projector.
BERENSEN
Thus, we began the long journey from
Liberty to Ennui.
EXT. SLEEPER PLANE. NIGHT
An amphibious aircraft in flight over the Atlantic Ocean (left
to right). Clouds wisp by in the background as we dissolve to a
cut-away view of the interior of the vessel. Waiters prepare
cocktails, and passengers read magazines. In first class,
privatized: Clampette (in an embroidered, kimono-style dressing
gown) sits at a low table smoking a cigarette and drinking a
night-cap as she completes her correspondence with the
assistance of a social secretary and a somewhat younger
Berensen, herself. Clampette rises, and a maid enters with an
ashtray and a hairnet which she stretches over her mistress’
head as they make their way down the aisle to a section of
curtained bunks. A doctor appears from aft with a tray of tonics
and remedies. He spoons two doses of milk of magnesia directly
into Clampette’s mouth, followed by a brief hypodermic injection
to the shoulder. Berensen assists Clampette up the ladder to her
bunk and passes her a mystery novel open to the correct page.
Clampette offers Berensen her unfinished cigarette, and they
pass it back and forth, sharing the last few puffs before
Clampette pulls the curtains shut. Berensen enters the lower
bunk and pulls her own curtains shut. Her hand pokes out through
a gap in the fabric to tap ash onto the floor. The lights in the
cabin go dim.
Throughout this scene, Cadazio dictates in voiceover:
CADAZIO (V.O.)
My dear Mrs. Clampette (“Maw”, if I may),
please, join us for the first-display of
Mr. Moses Rosenthaler’s extremely
exciting new work (which I, myself, have
not yet been permitted to see). In order
to facilitate the viewing in a timely
fashion, it may prove necessary for us to
surreptitiously gain access to the
facility where the artist currently
resides. Please, rely on my operatives to
organize any and all details and
preparations for your visit. Caution: do
not bring matches, lighters, or sharp
objects of any kind. We await your
confirmation with cheerful anticipation.
Yours most truly, Cadazio Uncles and
Nephew Galerie concern.

46.
INT. ART GALLERY. NIGHT
Cadazio and his uncles wait, standing and seated in various
positions around the showroom. They are dressed for the evening.
Scarves and coats are draped on chair backs and pedestals. Three
thick bundles of large-format banknotes, each the size of a
sheet of writing paper, rest stacked on a gilded tabletop at the
center of the room. Each uncle checks the time (by pocket-watch,
wristwatch, or hourglass) while Berensen explains:
BERENSEN (V.O.)
The paddy-wagon collected us directly
after the night’s final round of working
girls and revelers were delivered to the
drunk-tank at 3am.
Cadazio opens the curtains to check the clock tower above the
place across the river.
CUT TO:
A high-angle shot racing up one of the city’s narrow streets
following a motorcade composed of two police motorcycles and a
large paddy-wagon with cherry-lights whirling and sirens
howling, blasting, blaring, and wailing.
MONTAGE:
The rear section of a prisoner-transport vehicle with wire-mesh
windows and steel benches in two sets of tiered, facing rows.
The passengers include: Cadazio and his uncles; Clampette and
Berensen; Clampette’s secretary; sixteen additional well-heeled
art collectors in furs, jewels, dinner jackets, black tie, etc;
the entire coterie of the French Splatter-school, as seen in the
earlier photograph, along with their girlfriends (who appear to
be prostitutes); and two, uniformed wait-staff. All carry copies
of an exhibition-program labeled Rosenthaler/Cadazio.
Overhead angle: Cadazio’s hands count out a bribe into the palm
of the paddy-wagon driver.
A long, subterranean corridor of stone and mortar construction
with a narrow, brick path running alongside a coursing drainagegutter. Cadazio leads the procession described above, flanked
like a priest by two waterworks-men in pin-striped overalls (who
carry glowing acetylene gas-lamps) and the two wait-staff (who
push rolling hotel service-trollies).
Overhead angle: Cadazio’s hands count out a bribe into the palms
of the two waterworks-men.
A cement-paved exercise yard seen from a high tower.
Searchlights, periodically, sweep across the walls and cast

47.
barbed-wire shadows. The visitors traverse, diagonal, in silent
single-file, escorted by a quartet of prison guards.
Overhead angle: Cadazio’s hands count out bribes into the palms
of the four guards.
A wide passage segmented by consecutive, iron-barred gates.
Jeers and taunts echo and reverberate from rows of cells as the
congregation advances behind a dozen prison guards en masse
through the dimly-lit penitentiary.
Overhead angle: Cadazio’s hands count out bribes into the palms
of the twelve guards.
INT. RECREATION ROOM. NIGHT
An open doorway looking out from a pitch black space. The last
guests, one by one, cross the threshold. The door closes, locks,
and latches. We are in complete darkness. Long silence. A hushed
murmur. Cadazio’s voice calls out:
CADAZIO
Moses, are you here?
A beat. Then: Rosenthaler’s voice grunts from somewhere across
the room:
Uh-huh.

ROSENTHALER

CADAZIO
(nervous)
Any words of introduction? Or, perhaps, a
welcome to our wonderful guests, some of
whom have traveled a great distance to
come see your work, I hope? Or,
alternatively, just, I don’t know. Hello?
SIMONE
(also in the dark)
Lights.
There is a contact-bang, and the hobby-room (the previously-seen
white-washed hall the size of a squash court) lights up bright:
the space is now entirely muraled in ten astonishing panels,
each sixteen feet tall, as seen in Berensen’s lecture-slides.
(Now, for the first time, we see them in color, and they are
magnificent.)
Rosenthaler, seated in a wheelchair, wears a mattress-ticking
necktie with his prison uniform. He is stone-faced. Simone
stands at his side.

48.
Cadazio absorbs the view: the artist and the opus. His mouth
falls open. His eyes goggle. He shouts at the silent gathering:
CADAZIO
Quiet, please!
A moment. Suddenly, Cadazio bubbles over and exclaims, voice
cracking and screeching like an adolescent schoolboy’s:
I did it!

CADAZIO

Cadazio pumps his fists and scrabbles to the center of the room,
spinning in all directions to observe the encircling artwork.
His voice alternates between delirious hollering and reverential
whispering:
CADAZIO
It’s good! This is historic. I did it.
Open the champagne!
Corks pop, and the wait-staff sweep through the mingling crowd
with trays of coupes and canapés. Cadazio approaches
Rosenthaler.
CADAZIO
Why are you sitting in a wheelchair like
an invalid? You should be dancing on the
tables! It’s a triumph!
SIMONE
He stabbed himself in the thigh with a
palette knife last week, but, luckily,
the infirmary-boy was able to reconnect
the artery.
ROSENTHALER
(genuinely)
Do you like it?
CADAZIO
Do I like it?
(humbled)
Yes.
Cadazio leans down and kisses Rosenthaler on the forehead. He
turns to Simone and kisses her, as well. The entire group of
Splatter-school artists approaches. One of their companions
speaks to Rosenthaler on their behalf:
PROSTITUTE
They did your girlfriend for you.

49.
Each artist holds up a small portrait: a drawing on a napkin, a
sketch on the exhibition program, a sculpture made from a
champagne cork and its wire-cage, etc. Rosenthaler bows and
mumbles thank-you’s, moved and embarrassed (though not very
impressed). Cadazio points:
CADAZIO
Look at “Maw”. She’s mesmerized.
Across the room, Clampette stands close to one of the panels,
mesmerized, indeed. Berensen lingers some distance behind her.
Cadazio approaches briskly and idles at her side. Clampette
says, eventually, in the twang of her region:
CLAMPETTE
This here’s a fresco, t’weren’t it?
CADAZIO
(dazzled)
Precisely! He’s a Renaissance master of
the highest order! He mines the same vein
as Piperno Pierluigi when he illuminated
the Christ before God’s heavenly altar in
1565! “Maw”! Nobody has an eye for things
nobody has ever seen like “Maw” Clampette
of Liberty, Kansas! We should be ashamed
to even gather in her presence! Why the
fuck did she say fresco?
(shouting at Rosenthaler)
Are they painted into the walls?
Cadazio reaches out to touch the picture. He rubs it more
forcefully. He scratches and claws at it with the fingernails of
both hands, grimacing in panic. He is thunder-struck.
CADAZIO
Oh, no. What has he done? You fucking
asshole.
(desperately to Berensen)
Look at this.
BERENSEN
I think it’s utterly wonderful.
CADAZIO
It’s crucial! It’s probably a turning
point in the evolution of human
pictography! Scratched and plastered into
a reinforced cement aggregate gymnasium!
He even painted on the radiators!
CLAMPETTE
(speculating)
Maybe one of them resterashun fellers out
(more)

50.
CLAMPETTE (cont'd)
at the Fondazione dell’Arte Classico
could figger a way to rustle them
pitchers loose.
CADAZIO
We’re in a maximum-security prison,
“Maw”! It’s federal property! Even to
begin the bureaucratic nightmare would
require years of negotiation with a team
of highly-paid, arrogant, obnoxious
advocates. I don’t even know how you’d
peel them off. It’s a fresco.
Cadazio, abruptly, darts away and sails across the room to
confront Rosenthaler. He detonates:
CADAZIO
It’s a fresco!
ROSENTHALER
(puzzled)
So what?
CADAZIO
Can you even begin to fathom the shit-ton
of money my uncles and I have squandered
to get to this point-of-no-return? Look
at them!
Cadazio points. His uncles watch and listen. They do not appear
to comprehend the situation on any level.
CADAZIO
You’ve ruined us! Does that mean nothing
to you?
ROSENTHALER
(injured)
I thought you liked it.
CADAZIO
(ruthlessly)
I think it stinks. Get out of that
wheelchair! I’m going to kick your ass up
and down this hobby-room!
Rosenthaler tenses and winces as if he has been, literally,
stabbed in the back. He growls (as before).
CADAZIO
Don’t growl at me, you convicted
murderer. You homicidal, suicidal,
psychopathic, no-talent drunk!

51.
Without rising, Rosenthaler charges Cadazio like a rolling
rhinoceros, torquing his wheels with powerful force, kicking and
lunging as Cadazio dodges and feints. Cadazio throws champagne
into Rosenthaler’s eyes, blinding him briefly, then darts behind
the hulking artist and grabs the handles of his wheelchair. He
shoves hard and sprint-pushes Rosenthaler, rumbling across the
open gallery, launching the wheelchair and its passenger at
speed directly off a three-step ledge. The wheelchair is
airborne for an instant, then lands, skidding, with a thunk, and
continues at high velocity directly into the cement center of
one of the vast panels. It smashes with a cracking, metallic
thud. The room goes dead silent. Rosenthaler is immobile.
Simone turns to Cadazio, stern. Cadazio looks sheepish.
Suddenly, Rosenthaler quick-reverses, spins around, and
accelerates, bumpily rocketing back up the steps (with
remarkable athleticism) and re-charging Cadazio like an even
more ferocious rolling rhinoceros. Cadazio flees. The assembled
guests watch, surprised, perplexed, amused, frightened, sidestepping as: the two combatants circle the perimeter of the
room, screaming at each other furiously. As they whiz by Simone,
she deftly extends her foot, tripping Cadazio into a tumbling
spill, and, in almost the same instant, flips the hand-brake
lever on the wheelchair, freezing the axles and obliterating the
spokes. The vehicle, essentially, disintegrates as Rosenthaler
ejects through space, landing heavily directly on top of his
representative.
Cadazio, flat on his back, speaks up into Rosenthaler’s face:
CADAZIO
Get off me, Moses.
The fight is over. Rosenthaler, hobbling, is assisted to a
stool, onto which he crumples and wilts. Cadazio asks Simone,
bewildered:
CADAZIO
Why didn’t you tell me, gardienne?
Simone thinks for a minute. She starts to explain, then
simplifies it:
SIMONE
Because you would’ve stopped him.
Cadazio deflates. He nods. He retreats among his uncles, who
appear to be woozy and disoriented. Uncle Nick fans himself with
an exhibition-program. Uncle Joe takes a tablet from a tin and
washes it down with champagne. Cadazio says, heartbroken:

52.
CADAZIO
We have to accept it. His need to fail is
more powerful than our strongest desires
to help him succeed. I give up. He’s
defeated us. It’s sad, but there it is.
Anyway, at least, he finished the motherfucker.
(philosophical)
It is, perhaps, the most interesting
contemplation of peripheral vision I’ve
ever seen.
Cadazio shields his vision with his flat palm and pivots side to
side, studying the work out of the corners of his eyes. As he
returns to Rosenthaler, Rosenthaler throws open his arms, and
the men embrace like two exhausted prizefighters. Tears stream
down their faces.
CADAZIO
Well done, Moses. This has a greatness to
it. If you plastered it deep enough, it
may last. We’ll come see it again one
day. God willing. You’ll, already, still
be here, of course.
Rosenthaler shrugs. He says softly:
ROSENTHALER
It’s all Simone.
They watch Simone, on the opposite side of the room, standing
with her back to them, centered in front of another of the
massive panels. Berensen informs us (from the future):
BERENSEN (V.O.)
At that moment, they were both aware of
Simone’s intention to leave her position
at the Ennui Prison/Asylum the following
day, endowed with funds provided by the
Cadazios as compensation for her work as
Rosenthaler’s model and muse.
Cadazio puts his hand on Rosenthaler’s shoulder.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
She was re-united with the estranged
child to whom she had given birth in her
youth, and the two never again lived
apart.
Simone turns around to look at Rosenthaler and Cadazio. She
smiles and imitates the pose -- albeit cubist -- implied in the
painting: a runner at full stride, diving across an imaginary
finish line. (Her balance, of course, is impossibly perfect.)

53.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
She and Rosenthaler maintained a regular
correspondence for the rest of the
artist’s life.
In the meantime: Clampette and Berensen carefully study the
surfaces of one of the other panels. Berensen wears archivist’s
white cotton gloves as she assesses the qualities of the
material.
BERENSEN
It’s certainly an extremely challenging
task. The medium appears to be grease and
blood deep-permeated into a grain-based,
seamless gesso. I think you’d have to
take it whole.
CLAMPETTE
(optimistic)
I reckon that rascal Maurizio might fry
up a s’looshin in his noggin. He’s a
crafty, old sidewinder.
BERENSEN
(taking a note in her agenda-book)
I’ll contact him early tomorrow morning,
“Maw”.
Simone sits perched on the knee of Rosenthaler’s good leg,
darning another child’s sock (of a somewhat larger size than
previously-seen). Berensen glides over to Cadazio.
BERENSEN
Mrs. Clampette would like to put the
piece on hold.
Cadazio’s face goes blank and frozen. He mutters, stunned:
CADAZIO
The half-sticker?
BERENSEN
Yes, please. Should she choose to
finalize the sale: will this amount be
acceptable to you and your uncles?
Berensen hands Cadazio a slip of paper. He whisks on a pair of
reading glasses. His uncles materialize to huddle around,
peering over his shoulder. They murmur their approval. Cadazio
asks Berensen:
CADAZIO
Can we get a deposit?

54.
BERENSEN
(calling out to Clampette)
“Maw”? An advance against the total sum?
CLAMPETTE
Tell them stingy Frenchmen I ain’t making
no promises.
Cadazio and his uncles appear to be, tentatively, relieved.
Uncle Nick signals to the band. The music resumes, and the party
revives.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
“Ten Reinforced Cement Aggregate (Loadbearing) Murals” was to remain on hold
under the name Upshur Clampette for the
subsequent twenty years.
One of the wait-staff, hovering nearby, interjects
confidentially:
WAIT-STAFF
Mr. Cadazio? The prisoners are asking to
be bribed, as well.
Cadazio hesitates. He asks, irritated:
CADAZIO
Which prisoners?
WAIT-STAFF
All of them. There’s an angry mob outside
the hobby-room. This individual claims to
be their representative.
The wait-staff points to a wiry, scrappy, gristly, previouslyunseen convict loitering at his side. Cadazio does a double-take
and frowns. He says sharply, eye-balling the convict:
CADAZIO
Tell them we don’t bribe rapists and pickpockets. It’s unethical. Besides, I
didn’t bring an additional six million
francs in small bills.
Cadazio strides to the door and pokes his head out. In the
corridor, there is, indeed, an angry mob of approximately 300
prisoners holding improvised weapons (broom handles, pipesections, bricks and chains). Cadazio asks them rhetorically:
CADAZIO
How’d you get out there?
Cadazio leans back inside and shouts to Rosenthaler:

55.
CADAZIO
What do we do?
ROSENTHALER
(grimly)
Lock the door.
Cadazio attempts to re-slam the door, but the convict resists
and grapples with him. Simone baton-whomps him on the top of his
head with all her might. Blood spurts as the convict yelps and
bellows in a thundering baritone:
Riot!

CONVICT

Iron hinges shoot off in three directions as if blasted apart by
explosive charges, and the hobby-room door whangs flat onto the
floor with a boom. The mob stampedes into the art exhibition:
berserk, blood-thirsty, and spectacularly out of control. The
assembled guests, screaming and scrambling, attempt to defend
themselves.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
In the aftermath, 72 prisoners and six
members of the French Splatter-school lay
dead or mortally wounded.
Simone continues to baton-whomp numerous convicts. Cadazio
smashes a champagne bottle and jabs it into the faces of various
attackers. Clampette produces a Derringer pistol, shoots two men
dead, and reloads. Berensen discharges a high-pressure fire
extinguisher into the melee. The artists and their prostitutes
fight like sailors. Cadazio’s uncles struggle to prevent
themselves from being strangled to death.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
Moses Rosenthaler, for acts of extreme
valor which saved the lives of nine
guards, twenty-two distinguished
visitors, and the Ministers of Culture
and Urbanity, received his freedom (with
probation for life) -For the first time in the evening, Rosenthaler unsteadily rises
to his feet. In one hand: a large can of red paint (pigeon
blood). In the other: a bottle of turpentine. Again: he growls.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
-- and was decorated in the Order of the
Caged Lion.
Close-up: Rosenthaler swigs the turpentine, throws the bottle
aside, pours the full can of paint over the top of his head,

56.
lights a match, and roars, berserk (splattering: people,
painting, and camera). He spits, breathing fire.
EXT. CARGO PLANE. DAY
A military aircraft in flight over the Atlantic Ocean (right to
left). Clouds wisp by in the background as we dissolve to a cutaway view of the interior of the vessel. In the massive rearcabin: an army tank, a troop carrier, three jeeps, and the
entire hobby-room, intact, suspended from the ceiling trusses on
a net-cradle. It sways slightly in the mild turbulence.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
One score later, as per “Maw” Clampette’s
detailed instructions, Cadazio and his
own nephew arranged for the entirety of
the hobby-room to be relocated onboard a
Goliath Aviation twelve-engine artillery
transport directly from Ennui to Liberty.
Side by side in jump-seats with four-point harnesses and
parachute backpacks: a gently aging Cadazio and his bright,
eager, young relation.
CUT TO:
The hobby-room. Berensen and the audience from her lecture have
gathered inside the transplanted structure to view Rosenthaler’s
creation. Outside the open doorway: a corn field rustles in the
prairie breeze.
BERENSEN (V.O.)
In this form, the avant-garde assumed its
place upon the plains of Central Kansas.
INT. WRITER’S OFFICE (BERENSEN). DAY
At the window: Berensen studies slides and re-orders them in a
carousel tray. In the corner: the accountant makes notations on
slips and tickets. In the middle of the room: Howitzer paces,
shuffling a sheaf of receipts, muttering/quoting under his
breath:
HOWITZER
“Pencils, pens, erasers, thumbtacks,
pushpins, typewriter repairman...”
Howitzer interrupts himself, looking over his glasses at
Berensen:
HOWITZER
Why am I paying for a hotel room at a
beach club on the North Atlantic coast?

57.
BERENSEN
(slightly offended)
Because I had to go there to write it.
Howitzer grumbles, unconvinced. He shuffles more receipts and
resumes his muttering/quoting:
HOWITZER
“Breakfast, lunch, dinner, laundry,
nightcap, midnight snack...”
Howitzer interrupts himself (looking over his glasses) again:
HOWITZER
What’s wrong with the desk right here? In
your office, courtesy of this magazine.
BERENSEN
(slightly more offended)
Don’t ask me to be indiscreet. About what
happened between me and Moses at a
seaside inn twenty years ago. We were
lovers. I went back to remember.
HOWITZER
(pause)
On my dime.
BERENSEN
(firmly)
Yes, please.
Howitzer grumbles once more. He says to the accountant,
resigned:
Add it up.

HOWITZER

The accountant totals the figures on her adding machine.

58.

Story #2
(pages 59 to 96)

59.
INSERT:
The proof-print of a correspondent’s diary in the
Politics/Poetry Section. A line-drawing depicts a Citroën
economy-car, vandalized and on fire.
TITLE:
Youth Movement
“Revisions to a Manifesto”
by Lucinda Krementz
INT. DEAN’S OFFICE. NIGHT
A paneled room of generous proportions with high ceilings and a
vast, ancient table at its center. Seated across from each
other, cross-legged, in the middle of the desktop: a middle-aged
professor (tall, distinguished, rigid) and a nineteen-year-old
boy (skinny, wild-haired, electric). They both stare intently
at, situated between them: a chessboard. The professor keeps his
fingers on a bishop while he re-thinks. The boy (Zeffirelli)
puffs on a dark, skinny, Tuscan cigar. The room overflows all
around with a hundred students and a dozen faculty, standing on
cabinets, sitting on floors, crouched on windowsills, spilling
into the corridors and vestibules. All stare at the two players,
mid-match.
A voice (American, chain-smoker, low [for a woman]) begins:
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
March first. Negotiations between
undergraduates and the university
administration break down abruptly in
early-morning hours after clamorous
debate, angry name-calling, and, finally,
outright gambling over: the right of freeaccess to the girls dormitory for all
male students.
In the corner: two boys (a giraffe and a fire-hydrant) whisper
simultaneously. They are Vittel and Mitch-mitch.
VITTEL
Zeffirelli’s cramping the
professor’s bishop.

MITCH-MITCH
He should open the position
and counter with both rooks.

At the chessboard, the professor releases his bishop and taps a
game clock. Zeffirelli makes a brisk move, knight to bishop etc,
and taps the timer himself.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
The protest (which ended in a stalemate)
gave the superficial appearance of a
vanity exercise for the pimple-cream and
(more)

60.
KREMENTZ (V.O.) (cont'd)
wet-dream contingent; but, in fact, the
sexes were equally represented, and all
participants emphasized the basis of
their frustration: a desire (more: a
biological need) for freedom, full-stop.
Discreetly seated on the top shelf of a bookcase in a corner, a
sensible, fifty-year-old woman (skirt-suit, pearls, trench coat,
large handbag) watches, listens, smokes a cigarette, and takes
notes in a composition book. She is deeply curious, deeply
engaged, entertained/amused. She is Lucinda Krementz. She
frowns, then yells:
KREMENTZ
Young lady: shoes!
Across the room: a student in a turtleneck sweater, uniform
smock, long socks with sandals, and checker-striped motorcycle
helmet (worn at all times throughout the story) is standing on
the hem of a tapestry (knights, ladies, lions, unicorn) while
she checks her make-up in a powder-puff compact mirror. She
looks down at her feet, mortified. She carefully steps off the
draped cloth and neatens it. She looks back to Krementz and
sticks out her tongue. She is Juliette. Krementz raises an
eyebrow. At the table: the professor thwarts an attack on the
queen’s flank. Various quarters of the room cheer and grumble.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
It has exploded into symbolism, and
everybody’s talking about it.
INT. DINING ROOM. NIGHT
A comfortable fifth-floor flat cluttered with books and papers.
Seated at a futuristic, white, round table over a spotless,
white, round rug: a forty-ish couple. The husband wears a
pullover sweater and long sideburns. The wife wears a caftan and
long braids. In the background: twin girls, thirteen, eat alone
in the kitchen, listening to a news report on the radio.
Krementz faces her friends, chilly, as the husband twists a
corkscrew.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
March fifth. Late supper at the B’s.
Eldest boy, nineteen, not home since
yesterday morning. Father chanced upon
him, mid-day, marching alongside his
comrades. Their slogan:
CUT TO:
A stone wall. Spray-paint graffitied onto it: “Les Enfants sont
Grognons.”

61.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
“The children are grumpy.”
CUT TO:
Krementz lighting a cigarette as the wine is poured. She says,
matter-of-fact:
KREMENTZ
I’ll be needing an ashtray, if you care
about this carpet.
The husband moves briskly to fetch a receptacle. The wife,
sheepish, sits in silence. Krementz looks up coolly at a notentirely-successful chandelier.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
Local news reports: fascist law students,
loitering at the university gates with
intent to harass left-wing demonstrators
(their natural enemies), instead, brawl
in their defense when police forces move
to break up the demonstration.
The husband delivers an oversized, crystal bowl (which appears
to weigh about ten pounds) and clunks it onto the table under
Krementz’s cigarette just as ashes begin to crumble.
Thank you.

KREMENTZ

Krementz exhales a stream of smoke as the husband slides back
into his seat, uneasy.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
An additional dinner guest, thus far,
fails to appear. For this, I am grateful.
(Had not been informed of his invitation,
in first place.)
The husband and wife respond simultaneously, finishing each
other’s sentences:
HUSBAND
We didn’t mean to offend you.
We’re sorry.

WIFE
We thought you might decline
the invitation. If we warned
you.

KREMENTZ
You were right.
Faintly, outside: shouting, chanting, a periodic ricochet-pop.

62.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
Medical student on Radio-Ennui describes
aggressive crowd-control methods in use
on street today. Quote:
WIFE
Just give him a chance. He’s
very intelligent.

HUSBAND
How long’s it been? Since
what’s-his-name?

KREMENTZ
(patient)
I know you mean well.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
“It begins with a prickly tingling of the
exposed skin.”
Strangely: Krementz and the couple -- all three, at once -reach not for their wine but, instead, glasses of water. They
each drink a quick, solid gulp. As soon as Krementz swallows:
KREMENTZ
I’m not an old maid.
HUSBAND
We don’t think that.

WIFE
Of course, you’re not.

KREMENTZ (V.O.)
“Then: a reddening and swelling of the
orbital muscles.”
All three begin to blink, squint, and sniffle.
KREMENTZ
Take me at my word: I live by myself on
purpose. I prefer relationships that end.
I deliberately choose to have neither
husband nor children (the two greatest
deterrents to any woman’s attempt to live
by and for writing). Why are we crying?
HUSBAND
Because it’s sad. We don’t
want you to be alone.

WIFE
Loneliness is a kind of
poverty.

KREMENTZ
I’m not sad. My eyes hurt. There’s
something wrong with your apartment.
Pause. At the same instant: Krementz and her hosts begin to
cough, choke, and rub their eyes. The noise in the streets has
now erupted into a rumbling, clattering roar, punctuated by
megaphone shouts and a mixture of sirens.

63.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
“Finally: a barrage of searing pain as
snot pours from the nostrils, and the
throat spasms and constricts.”
HUSBAND
Spread a damp cloth on every
windowsill.

WIFE
I can’t believe it reaches us
up here. On the fifth floor.

The husband stands up and moves toward the curtains as a bright
light flashes outside. Distant thumps reverberate. The wife goes
into the kitchen to sweep the girls down the back corridor.
Krementz puts a napkin to her face and drifts across the
apartment, into a bathroom. She closes the door.
INT. BATHROOM. NIGHT
White tiles, dangling towels, a family of toothbrushes. Krementz
glares at herself in the mirror. Her eyes are blood-shot. Her
mascara is smudged. She turns on the tap and watches the water
run. Behind her: a subtle splash. She frowns. A pair of bare
feet balanced on the rim of the end of the tub shift and wiggle.
Krementz crosses the room and whisks the shower curtain fully
open with a jingling tug. Zeffirelli, soaking, turbaned in
terrycloth, smoking another skinny cigar, looks shocked. He
holds a graph-paper notebook and a four-color ballpoint pen
poised mid-sentence. Pause.
ZEFFIRELLI
I’m naked, Mrs. Krementz.
KREMENTZ
I can see that.
ZEFFIRELLI
Why are you crying?
Tear gas.

KREMENTZ

Zeffirelli sniffs the air. Krementz quietly realizes and/or
acknowledges:
KREMENTZ
Also, I suppose I’m sad.
Zeffirelli nods, thoughtful. He and Krementz lock eyes for a
moment.
ZEFFIRELLI
Please, turn away. I feel shy about my
new muscles.

64.
Krementz jerks the shower curtain shut again. She goes back to
the sink, searches in the medicine cabinet, and finds a tube of
mascara. She fixes her eyes.
KREMENTZ
Go tell your parents you’re home. They’re
worried.
ZEFFIRELLI (O.S.)
I’m expected back on the barricades.
KREMENTZ
(skeptical)
I didn’t see any barricades.
ZEFFIRELLI (O.S.)
(hedging)
Well, we’re still constructing them.
KREMENTZ
(evenly)
Uh-huh. What are you writing?
Zeffirelli slings the shower curtain open again. He holds up his
notebook and says vigorously:
ZEFFIRELLI
Our manifesto. I told them not to invite
Paul, by the way. Maybe you’re sad, but
you don’t seem lonely to me.
KREMENTZ
(vindicated)
Exactly!
ZEFFIRELLI
I saw you at the protest. On top of a
bookcase (taking notes).
(tantalized)
Is there a story in us? For the people of
Kansas.

Maybe.

KREMENTZ
(pause)

ZEFFIRELLI
(re: his manifesto)
Then you should study our resolutions.
Or, anyway, will you proofread it? My
parents think you’re a good writer.
KREMENTZ
Give it to me.

65.
Zeffirelli jolts up out of the tub, splashing and naked, lunges
across the bathroom, thrusts the graph-paper notebook into
Krementz’s hands, then darts away and slips back into the water.
Krementz opens the notebook and reads, frowning, flipping pages.
Outside the room: a doorbell rings, a dog barks. Krementz says,
skeptical:
KREMENTZ
It’s a little damp.
ZEFFIRELLI
(hesitates)
Physically? Or metaphorically.
KREMENTZ
Both. Based on the cover -(water-stained)
-- and the first four sentences.
ZEFFIRELLI
(offended)
Don’t criticize my manifesto.
KREMENTZ
(raising an eyebrow)
Oh. You don’t want remarks?
ZEFFIRELLI
(less certain)
I don’t need remarks. Do I? I only asked
you to proofread it because I thought
you’d be even more impressed by how good
it already is.
KREMENTZ
Let’s start with the typos.
ZEFFIRELLI
(squinting)
What’s there?
Krementz produces a red felt-tip pen and immediately begins
grading the document like a book report. Zeffirelli watches
tensely.
CUT TO:
Krementz emerging with the graph-paper notebook in hand. A tall,
wispy-bearded, blond man in corduroy waits, seated, with the
couple at the table. He immediately rises to his feet. It is
clear: the journey from wherever he has come from has been
difficult. His sleeve is ripped. His shirt is torn. There is a
small bandage on his forehead. He is dusty, mussed, and bruised.
He smiles, reserved. He is Paul. Krementz nods:

66.

Hi.
Paul Duval.

HUSBAND

KREMENTZ
WIFE
Lucinda Krementz.

PAUL
(bowing slightly)
How do you do?
Krementz stiffens as Paul kisses her on both cheeks.
KREMENTZ
Your beard is scratching me.
Paul withdraws slightly. Krementz tucks herself back into the
group. Paul sits, then holds forth at some length while Krementz
continues in voiceover:
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
Unexpected guest finally arrives. Looks
like hell. Describes odyssey across city:
stalled trains, stalled buses, broken
windows, paving stones flying in all
directions.
The girls, back in the kitchen, now in pajamas with the shirts
pulled up over their noses, raise the volume on the radio. The
husband refills glasses. The wife passes around a bowl of
radishes. Paul, in the meantime, summarizes:
PAUL
Can the faculty succeed if the students
fail? It remains to be seen. Anyway:
(changing gears)
Here we are. The famous Lucinda. Hello.
Paul smiles. Krementz says bluntly, signaling “stop”:
KREMENTZ
I didn’t know you were coming. They
didn’t tell me. This is not an official
meeting.
Paul hesitates. He looks to the husband and wife. They murmur,
uneasy. Krementz suddenly clutches her pearls, rolls back her
eyes, makes a gurgling sound, mock-suffocating, then plunks her
face down on a plate and plays dead. Paul opens his mouth and
pauses. The husband looks up at the ceiling. The wife looks down
at the table. The bathroom door opens again, and Zeffirelli
enters. He now wears a transparent rain slicker over his clothes
and a gas-mask over his face. His voice echoes inside the
breathing-device:

67.
ZEFFIRELLI
Good evening.
The husband and wife are, momentarily, speechless. Zeffirelli
offers a second gas-mask to Krementz. She stands up, puts it on,
and reverbs to her hosts:
KREMENTZ
Start without me.
Krementz follows Zeffirelli out through the salon. Off-screen:
the apartment’s front door opens and shuts. Paul, puzzled, and
the couple, angry/humiliated/worried, remain at the table in
uneasy silence. The girls, watching from the kitchen, snicker
under their pajama shirts.
INT. WALK-UP APARTMENT. DAY
A narrow bedroom on a high floor. Krementz (in a rose peignoir)
sits up in bed eating burnt toast, reading from her composition
book, and rapid-transcribing on a portable typewriter balanced
across her knees. Zeffirelli, beside her on the mattress, naked
(as usual), flips manifesto-pages, bristling at the numerous,
red correction-marks. She smokes a cigarette, he smokes another
skinny cigar.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
March tenth.
Zeffirelli does a double-take. He points across the room and
says false-modestly:
Me, again.

ZEFFIRELLI

Krementz looks up.
INSERT:
A small, black and white television set on a rolling cart at the
foot of the bed. On screen: an anchorman delivers a bulletin,
then introduces footage -- subtitled: “Last Night” -- of a
battalion of riot-police (billy-clubs and plastic shields)
facing off against a legion of student protesters (paving stones
and broken bottles). On a plastic crate in the small space
between the two transfixed, opposing groups: another chessboard.
In a sudden burst of attack/counter-attack, Zeffirelli and a
riot-police commander trade pawns, bishops, rooks, etc. then
pause. (A superimposed chessboard diagram re-caps the moves that
lead up to this caesura.)
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
City services at a halt, one week and
counting. Public transportation:
(more)

68.
KREMENTZ (V.O.) (cont'd)
suspended. Piles of garbage: uncollected.
Schools on strike. No mail, no milk.
Zeffirelli moves his queen diagonally seven spaces to capture
the queen of his rival. The collected military personnel and
young radicals gasp in unison, grimace, groan, and whisper
nervously. (A flashbulb pops.) Zeffirelli says discreetly:
Check.

ZEFFIRELLI

The riot-police commander, unfazed, protects his king with an
unforeseen, defensive side-step. Zeffirelli, surprised, nods
with guarded admiration. (A super-title blinks: “Stalemate!”)
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
What will normal reality be? Next week,
next month, whenever (if ever) we get the
chance to experience it again. Anyone’s
guess. Impossible to imagine these
students (exhilarated, naive, brave in
the extreme) returning to their obedient
classrooms.
Krementz looks to Zeffirelli. He has resumed bristling over her
corrections. He points:
ZEFFIRELLI
What’s this part?
Krementz leans over and squints to study the page.
KREMENTZ
I added an appendix.
ZEFFIRELLI
(in disbelief)
You’re joking.
KREMENTZ
(innocent)
No, I’m not.
ZEFFIRELLI
(appalled)
You finished my manifesto? Without me.
KREMENTZ
I made it sound like you, I think. Just
more clear, more concise, a bit less
poetic. Put it this way: this isn’t the
first manifesto I’ve proofread.

69.
Zeffirelli is insulted. The doorbell rings. Krementz gets out of
bed, leaves the room, and closes the door behind her. Muffled
voices echo through the wall/door. Zeffirelli frowns, anxious.
He strains to eavesdrop. He bites a fingernail. Krementz comes
back in and returns to the bed. Zeffirelli stares at her,
waiting. Finally:
ZEFFIRELLI
Who was that?
KREMENTZ
Your mother.
ZEFFIRELLI
(agitated)
My mother? What’d she want? Did you tell
her I was here?
Yes.

Why?

KREMENTZ
ZEFFIRELLI
(stunned)

KREMENTZ
(simply)
Because she asked. I don’t lie.
ZEFFIRELLI
(worried)
Was she upset?
KREMENTZ
I don’t think so.
ZEFFIRELLI
(doubtful)
What’d she say?
KREMENTZ
She nodded.
ZEFFIRELLI
(hesitates)
What’d you say?
KREMENTZ
I told her I was working on an article
about you and your friends.
ZEFFIRELLI
(intrigued)
So you are.

70.
KREMENTZ
(shrugs)
I’ve already written a thousand words. I
asked to interview her.
ZEFFIRELLI
(disoriented)
Did she agree?
Of course.

KREMENTZ

ZEFFIRELLI
(very agitated)
Well, I am upset. I don’t know how to
feel. Am I in trouble? Why would my
mother be so calm? Is it proper? This is
all off the record. Everything. My whole
life.
(vulnerable)
What am I supposed to do now?
KREMENTZ
(pause)
I should maintain journalistic
neutrality.
Long pause. Zeffirelli says genuinely (perhaps growing up ever
so slightly in this moment):
ZEFFIRELLI
I like how ruthless you are. It’s part of
your beauty, I think. You’ve got a
thousand words already?
Krementz nods, flattered, and points at the page in her
typewriter. Zeffirelli peers at it. Krementz covers it with her
hand. Zeffirelli returns to his manifesto. Krementz types one
more short paragraph.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
The kids did this. Obliterated a thousand
years of republican authority in less
than a fortnight. How and why? Before it
began: where did it begin?
INT. STUDENT CAFÉ. NIGHT
The front room of the Sans Blague bubbles over with
caffeinated/inebriated twenty-year-olds chattering shoulder to
shoulder along counters, booths, and banquettes. Classical music
blasts on the jukebox. A crowd hovers over a pinball machine
decorated with question marks, infinity symbols, atoms/molecules
and the caption: “Modern Physics!” A waiter speed-navigates

71.
through the circus with a rattling tray triple-tiered with
double-espressos extended high above his head.
(Note: each young patron of the café carries a highbrow/semiunreadable paperback of some variety at all times without
exception.)
TITLE:
Last Spring
Zeffirelli assumes the narration:
ZEFFIRELLI (V.O.)
It was another time, it was another
Ennui. Must be nearly six months ago, I
guess. (My sisters were still twelve,
anyway.)
INSERT:
An illuminated jukebox title-strip labeled G-7: “Dansez le
‘Craze’”. Zeffirelli continues in voiceover:
ZEFFIRELLI (V.O.)
You danced the Craze and the Lait Chaud.
MONTAGE:
A hiss, a scratch, then the first note of a French popinstrumental (an uptempo, beepy/jingly fugue). The camera
dollies among undergraduates with brush-cuts, mop-tops,
pageboys, and frizzy perms. The boys wear topcoats, two button
tweeds, and skinny high-waters. The girls wear knitted minidresses, ballet flats, and leotards.
ZEFFIRELLI (V.O.)
You wore your hair-do in the Pompidou,
the Crouton, or the Fruits-de-Mer.
A standing foursome of boys and girls talk simultaneously in
gibberish. One makes a symbolic hand shape followed by a
wiggling gesture. The others laugh.
ZEFFIRELLI (V.O.)
Your slang mixed bits of Latin with
philosophy jargon and manual signaling.
A balustraded, low-ceilinged mezzanine-loge at the top of a
spiral staircase. The menu du jour specials on the wallchalkboard have been rubbed out and carefully vandalized into:
“French Tongue on Shit Sandwich.” Juliette (seen earlier
standing on the tapestry in the dean’s office) sits at a table

72.
checking her make-up in her compact mirror as she addresses a
pack of admirers/detractors.
ZEFFIRELLI (V.O.)
Devil’s advocates bickered and debated
perpetually, ad nauseum, only for the
sake of argument:
JULIETTE
I couldn’t disagree more.
Pairs of opposing cliques go head to head at backgammon, Risk,
and crossword puzzles; vie at competitive domino toppling
(winding/climbing/fanning arrangements which click-clack their
way through the café doing tricks with matchsticks, shoelaces,
and sparkling water); and -- here we see Zeffirelli, Vittel, and
Mitch-mitch each at a separate board/game -- play chess.
ZEFFIRELLI (V.O.)
Every clique had a rival. The Nuts had
the Bolts. The Sticks had the Stones. The
Jocks had us: the Bookworms -Mitch-mitch, listless and distracted, re-reads a well-creased
letter, then moves a pawn and taps the game-clock timer. His
opponent immediately takes the piece. Pause.
ZEFFIRELLI (V.O.)
-- until Mitch-mitch failed the
baccalaureate and got sent down to
National Duty Obligation (three months in
the Mustard Region).
Mitch-mitch tips over his king, crumples his letter, pulls on
his topcoat, and leaves the table. He re-enters frame outside
the plate-glass window (late afternoon, drizzle), lighting a
cigarette as he jogs through criss-crossing traffic before
descending into the Flop Quarter Métro station.
Zeffirelli watches from his chessboard, concerned. He looks to
Vittel. Vittel shrugs. Zeffirelli snatches up the crumpled paper
from Mitch-mitch’s table and unfolds it.
INSERT:
An official summons red-stamped on flimsy, blue card-stock.
Across the top: Report for Compulsory Martial Chores.
CUT TO:
Night. Two tables frown at each other from corners of the frontroom. Juliette checks her make-up in her compact mirror.
TITLE:

73.
One Month Later
JULIETTE
Where were his principles when he agreed
to fight on behalf of an imperialist army
in an unjust war of totalitarian
aggression?
ZEFFIRELLI
(in disbelief)
He got sent to the Mustard Region. For
National Duty-obligation.
VITTEL
It’s required.
JULIETTE
(confident)
It’s the same.
ZEFFIRELLI
How dare you? Who gave you permission to
besmirch our friend? Does it occur to
you: he’s very probably marching in the
middle of the night right now carrying a
fifty-pound sack of gun-powder and
peeling stale potatoes while he digs a
latrine trench in the rain with a tin
cup? He doesn’t want to be in the
military.
VITTEL
It’s required!
JULIETTE
He should burn the patch and desert his
post.
A general gasp: conversation in the rest of the café has fallen
silent, and everyone is listening to the Mitch-mitch debate. A
whispered aside from a pre-law student at another table:
SMART GIRL
Minimum punishment: six-months sentence
and a Black Mark in permanent ink.
Zeffirelli, recovering from the affront, snaps back at Juliette:
ZEFFIRELLI
That’s easy for you to say. From the
comfort of the Sans Blague.

74.
JULIETTE
(confident)
It’s the same.
A new voice interrupts off-screen:
MITCH-MITCH (O.S.)
For once: she’s right.
Everyone turns. Mitch-mitch is standing alone in the open doorway at the end of the crowded bar, in front of the crowded
terrasse. He is dressed in a long, blue, floor-length cape, a
navy beret, and blue commando trousers tucked into muddy combatboots. He carries an enormous blue-camo duffel-sack over his
shoulder. The eyes of every customer are now glued to him.
Zeffirelli stammers then finds his tongue:
ZEFFIRELLI
Mitch-mitch, what are you doing here?
You’re supposed to be in the Mustard
Region for another two months.
In close-up: Mitch-mitch is a wounded soldier (psychologically).
Krementz returns in voiceover with the following information:
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
Five years later, I, myself, translated
Mitch-mitch Simca’s poetic interpretation
of his National Duty Obligation service
(the flashback scene in Act II of
“Goodbye, Zeffirelli”).
INT. CADET BARRACKS. NIGHT
A cement-box garrison dormitory dimly lit from the flies. Threetiered bunkbeds delineate the upstage backdrop (cinder block and
timber joist). Downstage, left: an industrial drum-heater idles,
bubbling. Downstage, right: a five seat latrine with noisy
pipes. A single, bare lightbulb hangs, suspended, above
centerstage.
On cots and footlockers: eighteen cadets in white boxer shorts,
tucked-in white undershirts, and shower slippers. A drillsergeant, dressed in the same garments with the addition of a
white kepi and gun-belt, leans on a bunk ladder, sipping from a
plastic mess-kit teacup. He speaks at a stage-whisper to the
rapt troop:
DRILL-SERGEANT
In North Africa, I caught a bullet in the
tail; in South America, I caught a chunk
of high-explosives shrapnel in the left
wing; in East Asia, I picked up a rare,
microbial, infectious gut-parasite in the
(more)

75.
DRILL-SERGEANT (cont'd)
lower abdominal cavity -- and I’ve got
them all with me right now, still in my
body: but I don’t regret my choice to
wear this uniform -The drill-sergeant motions across his costume (as indicated, his
skivvies).
DRILL-SERGEANT
-- and, in sixteen years, I’ll get my
pension.
(checks watch)
Well, that’s your bedtime story, ladies.
Lights out!
The cadets scramble to their bunks, shouting a ritual of calland-response/nighttime orders (”Hup! Ho! Hut!” “Lights out!
Blankets on!” “Covers tucked! Eyes shut! Pray your prayers!”),
followed by a general murmur of grateful, holy, reverential,
hushed muttering, signs-of-crossings, and “Amens” -- then
silence. (The drill-sergeant ascends a spiral staircase and
retires to an upstairs desk and cot seen only in silhouette
against a glowing, white rectangle.)
A top-bunk cadet rustles under his sheets.
Psst.

CADET #1

Long pause. The top-bunk cadet rustles again and props himself
up on an elbow.
CADET #1
Psst. Mitch-mitch. Psst.
Pause, again. The top-bunk cadet sits up fully.
CADET #1
Psst. Mitch-mitch. What do you want to
be?
Mitch-mitch (portrayed in this scene by a theatre-actor with
well-trained “instrument”), one bunk-tier below, leans out,
reluctant/annoyed.
What?

MITCH-MITCH

CADET #1
What do you want to be, Mitch-mitch?
Mitch-mitch sighs. As he answers, resigned, the rest of the
cadets creep out of their cots and return to their earlier
positions, listening.

76.
MITCH-MITCH
With my grades? I’ll be an assistantpharmacist.
CADET #2
Will that make you be satisfied?
MITCH-MITCH
(evenly)
It won’t depress me. I should’ve studied
harder.
CADET #1
And you, Robouchon?
CADET #3
I have no choice. I’ll work for my
father’s glass factory. Someone has to
take over.
CADET #1
It’s normal.
CADET #2
Vaugirard. What’s your plan?
CADET #4
I suppose, I’ll continue to be an
attractive wastrel, like my cousins on
both sides of the family.
CADET #1
Your cousins are the best.

CADET #3
I love your cousins.

MITCH-MITCH
(pause)
What about you, Morisot?
No answer. Mitch-mitch repeats the question:
MITCH-MITCH
Morisot? What do you want to be?
Morisot, bespectacled, timid, pale, answers softly from the
bottom bunk:
MORISOT
A protester.
CADET #1
(hesitates)
What’d he say?

77.
CADET #2
He said, “A protester.”
CADET #3
(puzzled)
What does he mean?
CADET #1
I don’t know.
CADET #4
(doubtful)
I thought Morisot was going to be a
professor of geological chemistry.
Mitch-mitch cranes upside-down to examine Morisot. He says,
surprised:
MITCH-MITCH
Morisot’s crying.
A voice in the darkness, across the room, hushes sharply:
Shhh!

VOICE

Cadet #1 bolts up on his knees. He shout-whispers, angry:
CADET #1
Who said, “Shhh!”
Silence. Morisot speaks again, quiet but determined:
MORISOT
I won’t do it.
MITCH-MITCH
(uncertain)
It’s only eight more weeks, Morisot.
Before we complete the program.
MORISOT
I don’t mean the program. I mean from
when we go home until retirement age.
That 48-year period of my life, I mean.
That’s what I won’t do. I can no longer
envision myself as a grown-up man in our
parents’ world.
Morisot slides open the window next to his cot, and discreetly
slips out into the night. A beat, then a sickening thud. Mitchmitch gasps, astonished, and shouts:

78.

Morisot!

MITCH-MITCH

Mitch-mitch drops and tucks into Morisot’s bunk. He screams,
pained:
MITCH-MITCH
He went out the window!
Other cadets scramble to join Mitch-mitch as he sticks his head
out and looks down.
CADET #1
Is he dead?
MITCH-MITCH
I don’t know.
CADET #2
How far did he fall?
MITCH-MITCH
Five floors with high ceilings.
CADET #3
It rained last night. Maybe the mud’s
still soft.
MITCH-MITCH
He’s not moving.
The stage-lights begin to slowly, slowly dim as Mitch-mitch’s
voice, diminishing in volume, softer and softer, repeats:
MITCH-MITCH
He’s still not moving.
(pause)
He’s still not moving.
(pause)
He’s still not moving.
(pause)
He’s still not moving.
(pause)
He’s still not moving.
CUT TO:
The café, exactly as we left it. Mitch-mitch crosses the silent
room to join his friends. Zeffirelli, confused and moved, stands
up and kisses Mitch-mitch on both cheeks. Mitch-mitch embraces
Zeffirelli. He turns to face the larger group. He steps up onto
a chair and points to a tricolor patch on his chest the shape of
a shield which depicts a flying bullet and the words: Mustard
Region Cadets. He says simply:

79.
MITCH-MITCH
I can no longer salute this patch.
Mitch-mitch rips off the patch and ignites it with a Zippo. The
room (including Juliette) gasps again. Zeffirelli, stunned,
mouth open, begins to slowly clap. Juliette joins him. Vittel
claps faster. A wave of thunderous applause spreads through the
room.
ZEFFIRELLI (V.O.)
The next morning Mitch-mitch was arrested
for Desertion and Desecration, and the
Sans Blague became headquarters for the
Movement of Young Idealists for the
Revolutionary Overthrow of Reactionary
Neo-liberal Society.
Above the jukebox: Juliette pulls down a glossy headshot of a
heartthrob (blue eyes, bronze skin, golden hair) taped to a
mirrored-wall and starts to replace it with a glossy headshot of
a public intellectual (round spectacles, woolen scarf, pipe).
Zeffirelli, edgy, pops up at her side:
ZEFFIRELLI
What are you doing?
JULIETTE
Replacing Tip-top with François-Marie
Charvet.
ZEFFIRELLI
(stupefied)
They can live together. Tip-top with
Charvet.
JULIETTE
Tip-top is a commodity represented by a
record company owned by a conglomerate
controlled by a bank subsidized by a
bureaucracy sustaining the puppetleadership of a satellite stoogegovernment. For every note he sings, a
peasant must die in West Africa.
Zeffirelli, stony, drops in a twenty-centime coin and punches
two buttons. Another hit French single (high-tenor vocals and
expansive, orchestral backing) gusts into the room. Spinning
lights circle. Immediately: the café is dancing -- and, at the
chorus, singing, fortissimo, in unison with “Tip-top”.
Zeffirelli and Juliette stare at each other coolly, then drift
apart into their respective crowds. Krementz resumes the role of
narrator:

80.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
There followed: a brisk, unpredictable
tit-for-tat between Ennui’s elders and
its youngers.
From one corner: Juliette watches Zeffirelli reflected in her
compact mirror. From the opposite: Zeffirelli studies Juliette
in a reflection of a reflection of an angled ceiling-mirror. He
puffs on his skinny cigar.
MONTAGE:
The cour of a dilapidated residential hotel. A thick-set
gardienne framed in the upper-section of a Dutch door gossips
darkly with an amiable gendarme and a group of elderly,
intrigued neighbors (eye-doctor sunglasses, mesh grocery-sacks).
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
August. Community whisper-campaign
denounces student movement.
An impasse alongside the Sans Blague. A squad of disorderly
police-goons dumps barrels of coffee beans into a sewer-canal.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
September. Sans Blague coffee-license
revoked by official decree.
A mansard platform on a tall building above the quai. Vittel and
two other headphoned student disc-jockeys with cigarettes in
their mouths speed-talk at a microphone inside a tiny,
ramshackle transmission booth next to a jerry-rigged
broadcasting tower twenty feet high.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
October. Propaganda Committee erects
pirate-radio tower on Physics Department
rooftop.
A long, formica-top table in a kitchen with tiled walls and
hanging copper pots and pans. Two dozen grandparents, aunts,
uncles, and cousins eat slices of an enormous, thin galette the
size of a bicycle wheel. Mitch-mitch, in pajamas, wears a paper
gold-foil crown on his head.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
November. Mitch-mitch released to
parental custody.
An idle librarian staring into space. Behind her: rows and
aisles of shelves, stacks, racks, carts -- all completely empty
and desolate.

81.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
December. Check-out Protest at the
Bibliotèque Principale (entire library
circulation legally removed until five
minutes before incur of massive overduebook fines).
The steps of the university lunchroom. A line of students, armslinked, lunch-trays brandished like shields, obstructs a bank of
entrance-doors.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
January. Meal-plan Blockade of the
undergraduate cafeteria.
The facade of a student-housing pension. Female students in
crowded windows lower improvised ropes down to male students
hanging from the ledges below.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
February. The Girls Dormitory Uprising.
It all, in the end, leads to -EXT. WIDE BOULEVARD. EVENING
One half-block of a paving-stone avenue between and below facing
banks of imposing, cut-stone apartment buildings. On one end: a
barricade of school-desks, chairs, bookcases, globes,
microscopes, and typewriters piled fifteen feet high. On the
other end: compact cars, burned black, still smoldering, on
their sides, upside-down, standing on end, split in two, etc. On
opposing flanks: two cafés, the Fleurs du Mal and the Americain.
A thread of gutter-water runs down the center of the road like a
stream through a canyon. Métro station: Bootblack District.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
-- March: the Chessboard Revolution.
Student protestors sit in clusters on the piled rubble and
mutilated cars; crouch on and dangle from storefront awnings and
ledges; direct traffic (one of them, anyway). Innocent
bystanders (old and young) stand on balconies and in open
windows; wait on tables and eat/drink at the terrasses of the
two cafés; pose for a tourist-family picture (T-shirt: “Liberty
Junior High Boys Track”). A platoon of riot-police stands in
formation beyond the barricade, fifty meters down the street.
Mitch-mitch and Vittel occupy the middle of the improvised
barrier -- near Juliette, who sits perched alone on the top of a
folding ladder. Each (protesters, bystanders, riot-police) holds
a pale pink pamphlet with “Le Sans Blague: a Manifesto” sloganed
across its letter-pressed cover. They all read intently,
periodically turning pages.

82.
Zeffirelli, anxious, lingers among his comrades, attending their
reactions (especially Juliette’s). He fidgets with his skinny
cigar. A voice booms over a loudspeaker:
RIOT POLICE (O.S.)
Le petit roque!
Zeffirelli, Mitch-mitch, and Vittel dart away to a metal cart
with a chessboard on it (black pieces only). Zeffirelli sits
down on a cane-backed dining room chair. He studies his options
for a fraction of a second, then moves a knight against his
invisible opponent. Mitch-mitch quickly writes in chalk on a
small slate and thrusts it up into the sky on a long, skinny
pole.
CUT TO:
The riot-police. A communications signaler at the spearhead sits
at his own metal cart operating a remote field-telephone system.
He raises a pair of binoculars to his eyes.
INSERT:
The binoculars’ P.O.V. The slate peeking over the top of the
school-desk barricade reads: ”Kt. to Q.B.3”.
The signaler relays a message into his handset receiver:
SIGNALER
Knight to queen’s bishop three.
CUT TO:
The situation room at the Ennui Mairie (long conference table,
tall leather chairs, numerous television sets). A cabinet aide
listening on the other end of the telephone line nods and
scribbles on an official memo-pad. He presents the message to:
the mayor (seventy-five, white moustache, rolled up
shirtsleeves/unbuttoned waistcoat), seated at his own chessboard
(white pieces only), surrounded by a team of political advisors
and game-strategy analysts.
CABINET AIDE
Mr. Mayor? He moved.
The mayor studies the message briefly (counsel peering over his
shoulders), then flicks it aside and looks at the board, hands
on hips. He puts his fingers to his own knight, pauses while his
team murmurs support/uncertainty, then makes an assertive move.
CUT TO:
The riot police. The signaler nods and shouts the capture into a
microphone, blasting from the loudspeaker:

83.
SIGNALER
Le cavalier prend le cavalier!
CUT TO:
Zeffirelli. He removes his knight from the board, folds his
hands, and concentrates. Mitch-mitch and Vittel resume reading
the pink pamphlet. Zeffirelli, distracted, asks:
ZEFFIRELLI
What page you on?
Mitch-mitch and Vittel answer simultaneously, eyes glued to
pages:
VITTEL
Final chapter.

MITCH-MITCH
Last paragraph.

Zeffirelli waits. (The sun sets. Street lights blink on.) Mitchmitch and Vittel close their pamphlets and nod slowly with
intrigued admiration, deeply thoughtful. Just as they begin to
speak: Juliette’s voice barks sharply from the top of her
ladder:
JULIETTE
You call this a manifesto?
Zeffirelli, Mitch-mitch, and Vittel look up. Juliette descends
to the ground, fuming.
Don’t you?

VITTEL

MITCH-MITCH
What’s wrong with it?

ZEFFIRELLI
(defensive)
I think so. By definition.
Other student protesters begin to gather around. Juliette opens
to a marked page and shouts:
JULIETTE
Page two, “Proclamation 7”.
Members of the growing audience open their pink pamphlets and
quickly turn to the indicated paragraph. Juliette runs her
finger along the text, rapid-muttering unintelligibly to herself
under her breath until she arrives at the pertinent passage -which she then declaims with angry, emphatic, bitter contempt.
Krementz, in voiceover, drowns her out:
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
In spite of the purity of their cause (to
create a free, borderless, utopian
civilization), the students, nevertheless,
(more)

84.
KREMENTZ (V.O.) (cont'd)
split into factions before fully uniting
in first place.
Juliette flips to another marked passage.
JULIETTE
Page five, “Edict 1(b)”.
Juliette rapid-mutters, then declaims again under Krementz’s:
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
One thing is now finally clear: they are
answering their parents. What do they
want? To defend their illusions. A
luminous abstraction.
Juliette flips to another marked passage.
JULIETTE
Page eleven, “Appendix Roman numeral
III”.
Juliette rapid mutters/declaims a third time. Krementz:
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
I am convinced they are better than we
were.
Juliette, having finished her quotations, now holds up the
pamphlet, outraged, and gives her critique:
JULIETTE
Who approved the unauthorized allocation
of funds for the mass-printing of this
obtuse, ambiguous, poetic (in a bad way)
document? I’m the treasurer, supposedly!
(pointing to vestigial organ)
And who needs an appendix, anyway?
Mitch-mitch and Vittel, unswayed, comment admiringly to
Zeffirelli:
MITCH-MITCH
That’s the best section of the
whole pamphlet.

VITTEL
My favorite part, maybe.

ZEFFIRELLI
(hesitates)
Mrs. Krementz suggested it, actually. The
appendix.
JULIETTE
(overhearing)
Mrs. Krementz wrote it?

85.
ZEFFIRELLI
(correction)
Polished it. Certain passages.
The assembled group now turns to, previously unseen, just
outside the inner circle: Krementz, taking notes in her
composition book. She looks slightly sheepish. Juliette objects:
JULIETTE
Why is she participating? She should
maintain journalistic neutrality.
Mitch-mitch and Vittel respond immediately and simultaneously:
VITTEL
No such thing. Doesn’t exist.

MITCH-MITCH
Journalistic neutrality is a
discredited concept.

Juliette, disgusted, rips her copy of the manifesto to shreds.
Zeffirelli is horrified.
JULIETTE
We didn’t appoint you (or Mrs. Krementz)
spokesman for us. Your job is to play
chess.
Zeffirelli points at the scraps on the ground. He explains:
ZEFFIRELLI
I inscribed it to you.

Oh.

JULIETTE
(hesitates)

Juliette crouches down and digs among the bits of paper. She
finds one with a handwritten dedication on it. She reads it,
then tucks it into her shirt pocket.
JULIETTE
I’ll save this souvenir, but for the rest
of it: I couldn’t disagree more.
Juliette checks her make-up in her compact mirror. Zeffirelli
looks wounded. Mitch-mitch and Vittel pat him on the back.
Krementz, eye-balling Juliette in disapproval, says in
voiceover:
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
Remind myself: you are a guest at this
manifestation. Not my fight. Stay out of
it, Lucinda. Keep your mouth shut.
Nevertheless, Krementz interrupts herself out loud:

86.
KREMENTZ
I have to say something.
(to Juliette)
You’re a very bright girl, Juliette. If
you’d put away your powder-puff (for one
minute, forgive me) and think for
yourself (for one minute, forgive me) you
might realize: you’re all in this
together. Even the riot-police.
Juliette pauses, frozen in her mirror. The crowd of student
protesters, eager and intrigued, draws closer, gossiping at a
whisper. Juliette snaps her compact shut and says,
confrontational but respectful:
JULIETTE
I’m not a child, Mrs. Krementz. I always
think for myself.
(including her comrades)
We all do.
Mitch-mitch and Vittel respond simultaneously again:
MITCH-MITCH
I wouldn’t say that.

VITTEL
Some do. Some don’t.

The signaler’s voice booms over the loudspeaker again:
À vous!

SIGNALER (O.S.)

ZEFFIRELLI
(tense)
Our move.
JULIETTE
(to Mrs. Krementz)
You believe I haven’t informed myself
properly? Or taken important matters
seriously? I assure you, it’s not the
case.
KREMENTZ
(backpedaling)
That was impolite. Of me. I withdraw the
remark.
Zeffirelli looks back and forth between Krementz and Juliette.
Long pause (more whispered gossip). Juliette shrugs,
indifferent:
JULIETTE
If you wish.

87.
KREMENTZ
(honestly)
I beg your pardon.
JULIETTE
(detached)
Very well.
KREMENTZ
(sincerely)
I’m sorry.

Noted.

JULIETTE
(coldly)

KREMENTZ
(hardening)
Thank you. You’re sure?
Of course.

JULIETTE

Juliette turns away to go -- then (on second thought) returns,
suspicious:
JULIETTE
Sure about what?
KREMENTZ
(matter-of-fact)
Sure you’re not a child.
JULIETTE
(stiffening again)
Quite sure.
KREMENTZ
(bluntly)
Then learn to accept an apology. That’s
important.
Juliette’s eyes darken. Aside, the pre-law student announces in
a hushed voice:
SMART GIRL
It’s a fight! The old American versus the
revolutionary, French teenager.
Juliette, derisive, demands:
JULIETTE
Important to whom?

88.
KREMENTZ
(frankly)
Grown-ups.
The signaler booms over the loudspeaker again once more:
À vous!

SIGNALER (O.S.)

ZEFFIRELLI
(frustrated)
Our move. The mayor’s waiting.
Juliette, exceedingly flustered, blurts harshly:
JULIETTE
I don’t object to you sleeping with him,
Mrs. Krementz. We all have that freedom.
(It’s a fundamental human right we fight
for, in fact.) What I object to is:
(slightly hysterical)
I think you’re in love with Zeffirelli!
That’s wrong; or, at the very least, it’s
vulgar. You’re an old maid.
The entire avenue (miraculously) goes dead silent. Krementz has
the full attention of every protester and bystander in the
vicinity. She blushes bright red. In an instant: her eyes fill
with fierce tears. She says quietly, dignified:
KREMENTZ
Kindly leave me my dignity.
Zeffirelli explains rapid-fire, firmly, gently to the group:
ZEFFIRELLI
She’s not an old maid.
(to Juliette:)
She’s not in love with me.
(to the group:)
She’s our friend.
(to Juliette of Krementz:)
I’m her friend.
(to Krementz of Juliette:)
She’s confused.
(to Juliette of Krementz:)
She wants to help us.
(to Krementz of Juliette:)
She’s angry.
(to the group:)
She’s a very good writer.
Zeffirelli turns to Krementz. Krementz bows, accepting the
compliment. Zeffirelli asks, concerned:

89.
ZEFFIRELLI
It’s a lonely life, isn’t it?
Krementz stares at Zeffirelli, surprised. She hesitates. She
looks to Juliette. Juliette’s lips part, but she does not speak.
Krementz says softly:
Sometimes.

KREMENTZ

CUT TO:
The situation room. The cabinet aide, holding the telephone
receiver, says to the mayor at his chessboard:
CABINET AIDE
Still no response.
The mayor frowns. He picks up a game clock and looks at the
timer. He shrugs.
MAYOR
Rubber bullets and tear gas.
CUT TO:
Krementz in close-up, eyes still filled with tears:
KREMENTZ
It’s true. I should maintain journalistic
neutrality. If it exists.
CUT TO:
Juliette in close-up, now crying, as well:
JULIETTE
Please, excuse me, Mrs. Krementz.
Krementz takes Juliette’s hand and clutches it briefly. She nods
and smiles. Juliette looks upset and uncomfortable. Zeffirelli,
beside and between them, is powerless, puzzled, and moved. A
volley of tear-gas canisters, flash grenades, and sound bombs
flies through the air behind the trio, bursting, blazing,
banging, sparking, popping, etc. Protesters scatter away in all
directions. Krementz dismisses the display with a reassuring:
KREMENTZ
It’s just fireworks.
Zeffirelli and Juliette, slightly awed, remain in place with
Krementz. The phalanx of riot-police surges over and around the
barricade, flooding the street, swinging clubs, firing rubber
bullets, deflecting paving stones and flying bottles, etc.

90.
Ignoring the entire commotion, Krementz points at Juliette and
says to Zeffirelli:
KREMENTZ
She’s the best of them.
(then, to both)
Stop bickering. Go make love.
Zeffirelli and Juliette grimace, embarrassed. Krementz points
at, nearby, a checker-striped (matching Juliette’s helmet)
motorcycle leaning on its kickstand. Zeffirelli and Juliette
turn to look at each other. Juliette says openly:
JULIETTE
I’m a virgin.
ZEFFIRELLI
(hesitates)
Me, too -- except for Mrs. Krementz.
Pause. Krementz says politely, with a shrug:
KREMENTZ
I thought so.
Automatically, in unison, Zeffirelli and Juliette jump on the
motorcycle. He wraps his arms around her waist. She produces the
ignition key from her pocket, inserts/twists it, kicks the
starter, and guns the engine. One of the student protesters
rolls aside a mesh-steel bin filled with gym equipment
revealing: a gap in the barricade. Mitch-mitch and Vittel
scramble through, followed by a dozen of their shouting comrades
-- and Juliette (with her passenger) on the motorcycle. They
shoot away, up the avenue.
Krementz stands alone at the center of the commotion.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
March fifteenth.
INSERT:
A desktop, a coffee cup, an ashtray. Krementz’s hands snap open
her composition book -- revealing, in the process, a glimpsed,
unexpected stray entry (in four colors of ball-point pen) upsidedown on the last page. She immediately flips back and rotates
the journal to study it.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
Discover on flyleaf of my composition
book: a hasty paragraph.

91.
EXT. WALK-UP APARTMENT. NIGHT
The facade of an old building of modest flats. The camera zooms
out from Krementz reading/smoking, lamp-lit in her bedroom
window, to reveal the windows of her neighbors (cooking,
ironing, vacuuming, glued to television sets and radios).
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
Not sure when Zeffirelli had the chance
to write it. Late that night, while I
slept? Poetic (not necessarily in a bad
way). Reads as follows:
CUT TO:
The motorcycle racing down a wide, eerily vacant boulevard.
Zeffirelli’s voice:
ZEFFIRELLI (V.O.)
Postscript to a Burst Appendix: an
invincible comet speeds on its guided arc
toward the outer reaches of the galaxy in
cosmic space-time. What was our cause?
SPLIT-SCREEN:
A pair of slow-motion portraits (eyes directly into camera). On
the left, Krementz, body wrapped in a damp towel, hair pinned
and netted, pearls; on the right, Juliette, shirtless in a
brassiere, face smeared with cold cream, plastic shower cap.
They stare at themselves in the mirror.
ZEFFIRELLI (V.O.)
Recollection of two memories. You: soapscent of drugstore shampoo, ashtray of
stale cigarettes, burnt toast. Her:
perfume of cheap gasoline, coffee on the
breath (too much sugar), cocoa-butter
skin. (Where does she spend her summers?)
They say it’s the smells you finally
don’t forget. The brain works that way.
CUT TO:
The motorcycle, another angle. Zeffirelli, clutching Juliette,
closes his eyes. Smoke and embers swirl from his skinny cigar.
ZEFFIRELLI (V.O.)
(I’ve never read my mother’s books. I’m
told my father was really quite
remarkable during the last war. Best
parents I know.)

92.
INT. STUDENT RESIDENCE. NIGHT
A six-bed sleeping quarters with the lights out. Zeffirelli and
Juliette sit cross-legged, naked, facing each other on the
sheets of a top bunk just below the ceiling. They talk rapidly
at a whisper, giggling, touching, sharing junk food and a Coke.
In the open bathroom door, a student in a dressing gown brushes
out her hair. Slowly: the interior background dissolves away
revealing stars, planets, the universe, infinity, etc. A tiny
comet inches across the sky-scape.
ZEFFIRELLI (V.O.)
The girls dormitory: first time I’ve come
inside (except to vandalize it during
demonstrations). I said, “Don’t criticize
my manifesto.” She said, “Take off your
clothes.” I feel shy about my new
muscles. Her large, stupid eyes watched
me pee. A thousand kisses later: will she
still remember the taste of my tool on
the tip of her tongue? (Apologies, Mrs.
Krementz: I know you despise crude
language.)
INSERT:
Extreme close-up: the end of Zeffirelli’s stray entry. Too
scribbly to read. Krementz’s voice returns:
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
Additional sentence at bottom of page
completely indecipherable due to poor
penmanship.
INT. UNIVERSITY ROOFTOP. NIGHT
The tiny transmission booth next to the broadcasting tower above
the quai. Juliette, Vittel, Mitch-mitch, and the two other
headphoned student disc-jockeys sit clustered around Zeffirelli
(with an open, heavily-corrected-in-red-ink copy of the pink
pamphlet in his hands) at the microphone. The familiar French
pop song plays in the background as Zeffirelli announces to the
radio audience:
ZEFFIRELLI
“Revisions to a Manifesto.” Page four,
“Asterisk 1”.
CUT TO:
An exterior view as Zeffirelli continues the broadcast
(inaudible through the sound-proof glass). Up above: an
electrical crackle and a bang/pop from the top of the broadcast
tower. A dust of falling sparks.

93.
INSERT:
The “On Air” light flickers to “Off.”
MONTAGE:
The listening audience at various radios: students at a
barricade, riot-police at an armored troop-transport, the
professor with his wife in curlers, Zeffirelli’s sisters under a
sheet in their bedroom, Paul alone in his kitchen. They adjust
their dials, twist their antennae, poke, tap, shake, etc.
(Note: the audio track during the following sequence of shots
consists entirely of static interference, sizzling zaps,
oscillating warbles, and white noise. No live sound.)
CUT TO:
A high, direct-overhead, bird’s-eye view of the transmission
booth. A hatch on the side cracks open, and Zeffirelli’s head
pokes out and looks up at camera.
INSERT:
The top of the broadcasting tower. A science-project-type drycell ignition battery (brand: Éclair Blanche) has been affixed
with duct tape and bailing wire to the side of the truss below a
whip antenna at the pinnacle of the structure. A pronged wire,
loosed from its terminal-post, dances, jolts, and flashes with
electrical arcs.
Zeffirelli reaches back inside and produces a pair of needlenose pliers. He says (silent):
Wait here.

ZEFFIRELLI

Zeffirelli briskly, immediately, scales the tower, up out of
frame. Juliette, Mitch-mitch, and Vittel, alarmed, burst out of
the booth and shout urgently (silent) at Zeffirelli:
VITTEL
Stop! What are you doing?

MITCH-MITCH
Are you crazy? Don’t be
stupid!

JULIETTE
Come back down here right now,
Zeffirelli!
Zeffirelli, cheerily ignoring his friends’ warnings, reaches the
top of the flimsy broadcast tower. The structure bends and sways
slightly as he quickly pinches the prong of the live wire with
the pliers and re-inserts it into its terminal-post.

94.
(Note: static ends, replaced by “Tip-top” with high-tenor
vocals, expansive, orchestral backing, etc. Still no live
sound.)
Juliette, Mitch-mitch, and Vittel stare up at Zeffirelli, tense
with concern, involuntarily mouthing the words to the pop song.
Zeffirelli waves down at them and gives a salute, reassuring,
then looks out across the twinkling cityscape. He withdraws a
fresh, skinny cigar from his breast pocket, holds it with the
pliers, touches it to the gently sparking battery terminal, and
puffs. He tucks the pliers under his belt. He smokes and smiles.
The battery explodes. A support cable snaps. Zeffirelli hangs on
as the tower collapses.
INT. TAXI CAB. NIGHT
A Citroën sedan. Driver: woman, late middle-age, tired. The
husband and wife (Zeffirelli’s parents) sit together on one side
of the back seat, arms intertwined, clasping hands, stone-faced.
They wear pajamas/nightgown with belted overcoats. Krementz
explains:
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
He is not an invincible comet speeding on
its guided arc toward the outer reaches
of the galaxy in cosmic space-time.
Rather: he is a boy who will die young.
He will drown on this planet, in the
steady current of the deep, dirty,
magnificent river that flows night and
day through the veins and arteries of his
own ancient city. His parents will
receive a telephone call at midnight,
dress briskly, mechanically, and hold
hands in the silent taxi as they go to
identify the body of their cold son.
The taxi stops. (A neon red cross glows outside the window.) The
husband, startled, counts out coins from his pajama-top pocket.
He and his wife exit. The chauffeuse drives on, passengerless.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
His likeness (mass-produced and shrinkwrap packaged) will be sold like
bubblegum to the hero-inspired -- who
hope to see themselves like this:
MONTAGE:
A rapid-sequence of inserts. First: the original negative of a
reportage photograph depicting Zeffirelli at chessboard, skinny
cigar clenched in smiling teeth, dazzling/mischievious eyes
flashing up to camera, caught mid-move as he slides his black

95.
queen seven spaces, blurred by motion, to capture his rival’s
white one. Filling the frame all around him: a platoon of armed
and armored standing riot-police. They react, gasping, groaning,
grimacing, wincing, etc.
Next: the same image (now a positive print) boxed in greasepencil on a contact sheet surrounded by the sequence of
exposures taken during the moments before/after.
Next: the front page of a newspaper with the same image (in
dotted halftone) and the caption below it: “Boy, skilled chess
player/activist in youth movement, dies.”
Next: a snapshot of a gang of posing teenagers. One, front-andcenter, wears a T-shirt silk-screened with the same image.
Finally: a magazine advertisement using the same image
(airbrushed and colorized) to sell skinny cigars (branded:
“Toscano Zeffirelli”).
EXT. RIVER EMBANKMENT. DAY
A crane on a barge alongside a footbridge clanks and ratchets as
it hoists the demolished broadcasting antenna out of the dark
water. An assembly of onlookers watches from the bank below a
street-sign: Quai Blasé.
INSERT:
A chessboard. It leans upright against the footbridge railing,
encircled with candles, flowers, paving-stones, scribbled
messages, a “Tip-top” record, and the above-mentioned clipping
(same image of Zeffirelli) held in place by a black queen as a
paperweight. Newsprint rustles slightly in the breeze.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
The touching narcissism of the young.
The camera dollies away from the impromptu shrine to reveal
Juliette (in Zeffirelli’s transparent rain-slicker), Vittel (arm
in a sling), and Mitch-mitch (in National Duty-obligation
uniform, duffel over his shoulder) watching the river, backs to
camera, as the grey surface is peppered by a drizzling,
afternoon rain.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
March thirtieth.
INT. WALK-UP APARTMENT. DAY
Krementz’s bedroom. On the television set: riot-police dismantle
abandoned barricades; firemen douse smoldering vehicles; a
milkman carries fresh bottles in two metal baskets. (A supertitle blinks: “Strikers Yield!”)

96.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
Across the street, a glaring metaphor:
Krementz (in her rose peignoir) sits up in bed, portable
typewriter on her knees, staring out the window. She wears the
gas-mask. Faint sound of shouting children in playground below.
KREMENTZ (V.O.)
Bell rings; pupils scamper inside (back
to their obedient classrooms); a creaky
swing sways in the deserted schoolyard.
INT. WRITER’S OFFICE (KREMENTZ). DAY
Krementz sits alone at her desk eating burnt toast. A knock,
then the door creaks open, and Howitzer looks inside. Krementz
points at a manuscript on her desk. Howitzer enters and sits. He
reads, she eats.

97.

Story #3
(pages 98 to 128)

98.
INSERT:
The proof-print of a diner’s chronicle in the Tastes and Smells
Section. A line-drawing depicts a dinner plate with a pen on one
side, a pencil and eraser on the other, and a ruled/margined
writing-paper placemat underneath.
TITLE:
Kitchen Accounts
“The Private Dining Room
of the Police Commissioner”
by Roebuck Wright
INT. TELEVISION STUDIO. DAY
The set of a talk show with three swivel-armchairs and an
ashtray on a pedestal. The host (white): forty, beige/check
three-piece, longish hair parted on the side. The guest (black):
fifty, open collar/silk scarf, burnt-orange safari suit. He is
Roebuck Wright. He speaks in the drawl (languid, literary) of
the Gothic American South. Both men smoke.
T.V. HOST
Someone told me you have a photographic
memory. Is that true?
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
That is false. I have a typographic
memory. I recollect the written word with
considerable accuracy and detail -- but
in other spheres my powers of retention
are distinctly impressionistic. I am
known to my intimates as a most forgetful
man.
T.V. HOST
Yet you remember every word you ever
wrote: the novels, the essays, the poems,
the plays -ROEBUCK WRIGHT
(bittersweet)
-- the unrequited valentines. Sadly, I
do.
T.V. HOST
May I test you?
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
(coy/demure)
If you must.
(looking to audience)
Unless we try the patience of your
(more)

99.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (cont'd)
viewership -(looking to wings)
-- or the esteemed spokesmen of Gemini
Toothpowder?
Off-stage: an actor stands at a sponsor display-table stacked
with tins of whitening dentifrice. He looks slightly startled,
then smiles awkwardly and nods. The host continues:
T.V. HOST
My favorite piece is the one about the
cook where the kidnappers get poisoned.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
(immediately self-quoting)
“Do students of the table dream in
flavors?” This was the first of the
questions a reporter for this magazine
had diligently prepared in advance of his
encounter with Lieutenant Nescaffier,
ranking chef at District Headquarters on
the narrow river-peninsula known as the
Rognure d’Ongle. All such queries were to
remain unanswered in the course of that
eventful evening.
(brief pause)
Shall I carry on?
T.V. HOST
(impressed)
Please.
INT. GROUND-FLOOR HALLWAY. EVENING
A long, institutional-style corridor in a massive, seventeenth
century building. Dim overhead light. Worn, grey linoleum
floors. Dingy, chipped, cracked, yellowing, thick-gloss painted
walls. Camera leads Roebuck Wright (fifteen years younger,
dressed in a black suit and necktie) down the hall, shoes clipclopping, eyeballs searching left and right, lost.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
I had arrived insufficiently early.
Though the suite of rooms on the
penultimate floor of the grand edifice
was hypothetically indicated on a
floorplan provided on the back of the
carte de dégustation -INSERT:

100.
Overhead angle: a slip of a paper pinched tightly in Roebuck
Wright’s fingers. It is a menu for a nine course dinner with a
map (on the verso) of the labyrinthine compound.
CUT TO:
Roebuck Wright, same corridor. Camera now follows him.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
-- it was nigh impossible to locate. At
least, for this reporter. (A weakness in
cartography: the curse of the
homosexual.)
Roebuck Wright makes a wrong turn, doubles-back, then U-turns,
repeatedly checking room numbers against his map.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
M. Nescaffier made his name and
reputation (he is fanatically celebrated
among cooks, cops, and capitains -- not
to mention squealers, stoolies, and
snitches) as the great exemplar of the
mode of cuisine known as Gastronomie
Gendarmique.
MONTAGE:
Roebuck Wright pokes his head into the doorways of various
departmental offices. First: the crimes-in-progress dispatch
center (bank of phones, radio operator, wall map of the city
pocked with urgent alarms and alerts).
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
“Police cooking” began with the stake-out
picnic and paddy-wagon snack, but has
evolved and codified into something
refined, intensely nourishing, and, if
executed properly, marvelously flavorful.
Next: a training gymnasium with cadets in police-issue exercise
leotards performing fitness regimes (pugilist sparring, rope
climbing, medicine ball throwing).
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
Fundamentals: highly portable, rich in
protein, eaten with the non-dominant hand
only (the other being reserved for
firearms and paperwork).
Next: the target-end (bullets whizzing) of a marksmanship
practice range.

101.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
Most dishes are served pre-cut. Nothing
crunchy. Quiet food.
Next: the disguises check-out dispensary (wigs, fake beards,
ecclesiastical vestments).
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
Sauces are dehydrated and ground to a
powder to avoid spillage and the risk of
the tainting of a crime scene.
Finally: an apparently unattended booking room. Roebuck Wright
pauses, momentarily mesmerized. He wanders slowly inside. He
stands at the door of a locked holding cell (hand-labeled
“Chicken Coop #1”).
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
Diners are expected to provide their own
fourchettes de poche, often engraved with
the arcane mottoes and off-color sayings
of their respective precincts.
A previously-unseen small, wiry, bespectacled number-cruncher
sleeping on a bunk inside the cell rustles slightly. Roebuck
Wright retreats a step, startled. The number-cruncher looks up
with frightened eyes. He says softly:
NUMBER-CRUNCHER
How are you planning to kill me?
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
(hesitates)
I believe this to be a case of mistaken
identity.
The number-cruncher looks skeptical. Roebuck Wright asks gently,
indicating the sign:
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
Have you been in the chicken coop for a
very long while?
Off-screen: a theatrical cough/throat-clearing. Roebuck Wright
only now notices a previously-unseen platoon of guards (smoking,
snacking, reading, toothpicking, all armed with cylindricalmagazine submachine guns) watching him evenly from around the
room. Roebuck Wright hesitates, apologetic.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
I beg your pardon.

102.
The number-cruncher watches, puzzled, as Roebuck Wright ducks
away. The camera booms down to the wooden baseboard below the
number-cruncher’s bunk:
INSERT:
A spaghetti of carved graffiti. One message, only faintly
visible, seems to read: “Roebuck Wright was here.”
CUT TO:
A narrow hallway on a high floor. A minuscule elevator on the
far end opens. Roebuck Wright emerges and approaches.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
M. Nescaffier, even during his
apprenticeship in a provincial fire
department, aspired to a lofty perch, and
there can be no higher position in the
métier than that of Chef Cuisinier for
the private dining room of the
Commissaire de la Police Municipale.
The camera pans to a pair of double-doors discreetly labeled:
“Privé”.
INT. DINING ROOM. NIGHT
The door creaks open and Roebuck Wright peers into:
A rustic, dark-wood chamber. Wide-plank floors. Low ceilings
supported by thick beams. Heavy, ornate, carved chairs and
sideboard. Lace curtains. Rugs in crimson. A carefully-set table
which seats: a sturdy but elegant eighty-year-old woman and two
fifty-five-year-old men. One is old for his age, bent, wrinkled,
ashen, and ghoulish. The other is young for his age, short
statured/broad shouldered, dressed in a well-tailored dark suit
with a shot of red thread sewn into the lapel. He is the
Commissaire. Across the room, next to a young policeman with an
apron over his uniform, a chef (French-Korean, tortoise-shell
spectacles, haircut with sharp bangs, fifty) stands lingering in
the kitchen doorway.
The entire group stares at camera/Roebuck Wright.
The Commissaire checks a clock on the mantelpiece (time: two
minutes after nine). He motions to a single, empty chair at the
table. Roebuck Wright, sheepish, approaches, sits, and says
gently:
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
Forgive my tardiness.

103.
COMMISSAIRE
(suddenly warm)
Not at all. Mr. Wright, may I present my
mother, Louise de la Villatte. You can
call her Maman. We all do.
Roebuck Wright bows to the old woman. Her smile exudes a
powerful maternal geniality. The Commissaire indicates the other
seated man:
COMMISSAIRE
This is my oldest friend, Chou-fleur.
When I met him, he was a girlish little
schoolboy with ringlets and a full set of
teeth. Now he looks like a corpse.
As the Commissaire’s childhood friend chuckles to himself, his
dentures loudly click. Roebuck Wright bows again. The
Commissaire points across the room.
COMMISSAIRE
In the corner, Patrolman Maupassant.
He’ll be serving.
(aside)
Cocktails.
The patrolman/waiter briskly fetches up a tray of small aluminum
thermoses. He delivers them to the table just as a boy (FrenchNorth African, age ten) in a blue lab coat enters through a side
door. He carries a carton filled with files and documents. He is
Gigi. A police academy cadet/nanny trails behind him. The
Commissaire, vaguely suspicious, explains as they pass:
COMMISSAIRE
This is my son, Gigi, in the crime-lab
smock. What are you stealing? From my
personal records.
GIGI
Unsolved cases.
COMMISSAIRE
Say hello to Mr. Wright.
GIGI
Hello, Mr. Wright.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
Hello, Gigi.
Gigi pauses to shake hands while balancing boxes. Roebuck Wright
explains in voiceover:

104.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
Full name: Isadore Sharif de la Villatte.
FLASHBACK:
The Commissaire and a younger Gigi walk together down a dock
alongside the hull of an ocean liner. Stevedores hoist crates. A
mist drifts across the planks.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
The Commissaire and his only son,
motherless and widowered, left the colony
where the boy was born cemented together
by their shared grief. Gigi was six.
The younger Gigi rides with his head sticking out the window of
a speeding police car. Sirens blast. The Commissaire is at the
wheel.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
His schoolrooms were the station house
and the squad car.
The younger Gigi carefully presses the enormous, ink-coated
fingers of a hulking thug onto a blank arrest-form page. The
Commissaire (observing) looks pleased.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
He was educated by forensic tutors in the
traditions of law enforcement.
A meek shopkeeper gives a description as the younger Gigi
finishes a sketch then flips it around to show: a wild-eyed,
crooked-toothed maniac. The shopkeeper nods. The Commissaire
(observing) looks pleased again.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
His first drawings were facial composites
based on eyewitness testimony.
Split-screen: on the left, the younger Gigi taps a signal on a
telegraph machine; on the right, the Commissaire listens and
records.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
His first words were in Morse Code.
(Note: electronic beeps accompany a title sliding across the
bottom of the screen which reads: “*--* *- *--* *- P A P A”.)
The younger Gigi and the Commissaire stand in front of the
crimes-in-progress wall map, studying alarms and alerts.

105.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
It was, I suppose, wonderfully obvious.
Gigi and the Commissaire hold hands.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
He was brought up to succeed the
Commissaire, himself.
CUT TO:
Gigi lingering next to Roebuck Wright. He says, pointed:
GIGI
I’ve read you. In the magazine.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
(hesitates)
To your satisfaction?
GIGI
(broadly)
Of course.
Gigi and his minder exit through a secret door into a cramped
spiral stairwell. The chef now stands at the elbow of the
Commissaire.
COMMISSAIRE
I trust you’re already familiar with this
genius, at least by reputation:
(with pride, even vanity)
Lieutenant Nescaffier.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
(reverently)
I surely am.
The party of four all look up to the chef. The chef salutes and
stands at ease, calm and confident. The Commissaire nods
“begin”. The chef disappears. The diners unscrew their thermoses
and decant doses of a cloudy, lilac-colored liquid. They sip
their cocktails. Roebuck Wright, already enchanted, explains in
voiceover:
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
The drink, a milky, purplish aperitif,
ferociously fragrant, overtly medicinal,
ever-so-faintly anesthetizing (and cooled
to a glacial viscosity in a miniature
version of the type of vacuum-flask
normally associated with campsites and
schoolrooms) cast a spell -- which,
during the subsequent sixty second
(more)

106.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.) (cont'd)
interval, was to be mortally broken. On
three overlapping dramatic-timelines, the
following events came to pass:
INSERT:
A black-gloved hand activates a stopwatch.
(Note: each segment of the following sequence portrays a
different scene occurring during the same approximately
simultaneous one-minute timespan, initiated by the same sound:
the stopwatch start. Loud ticking, amplified and reverberant,
continues throughout.)
MONTAGE:
1. In the kitchen: the chef blazes up an armory of cooktop-fires
and furnace-flames, then sets to work: chopping, stirring,
poaching, braising, flipping, folding, salting, spicing, etc.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
One. M. Nescaffier began his mysterious
ritual. (I can neither comprehend nor
describe what occurs behind a kitchen
door. I have always been content to enjoy
the issue of an artist’s talent without
unveiling the secrets of the chisel or
the turpentine.)
2. In the nursery (a garret playroom decorated with books and
paints, trunks overflowing with costumes, a police rockinghorse, etc.): Gigi and the cadet/nanny sit on tiny chairs at a
diminutive table as they examine the stacks of borrowed
paperwork.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
Two. The skylight window of the makeshift
nursery which occupies the attic quarters
jimmied ajar.
The camera tilts up to the vaulted glass ceiling. A pane inches
sideways in its frame with a nearly silent squeak. A blackgloved hand gripping a medium-calibre automatic pistol (muzzlemounted with a silencer) cranes into the room. The extended
barrel slants toward the floor.
The camera tilts back down. The cadet/nanny stands up and exits
frame. He returns with an ashtray and lights a cigarette. He
puffs on it -- then, suddenly: he and Gigi both look to the
ceiling/skylight.
The camera tilts back up with a whip. The gun fires (a silencer
“thwoop”). Off-camera: a thump, a thud, and a thwack.

107.
The camera tilts back down. The cadet/nanny is now dead in his
tiny chair, shot through the top of the head, still bleeding
liberally onto the strewn depositions etc. Gigi is gone.
A rope drops into frame from above. The chauffeur (a bent-nosed
former heavyweight prize-fighter with a cauliflower ear and
stitches on his forehead) who slides down and drops to the floor
wears a grey cap; long, grey, double-breasted, black-belted
coat; grey breeches; ballet slippers; and a white handkerchief
tied over his face like a bandit. A coiled cord hangs over his
shoulder. He darts/pads out of the shot. Off-camera: a
scrambling hubbub.
The chauffeur re-enters carrying Gigi, trussed like a chicken,
blindfolded, and gagged. He grips him at the waist. He takes a
deep breath, bends his knees, then hurls the boy like a spinning
circus tumbler straight up, through the ceiling skylight, out of
the building. The chauffeur then takes the end of the rope and
clips it to a metal ring strapped to his chest. He waits.
3. In the dining room: a small, red indicator-lightbulb mounted
on the sideboard blinks on. The patrolman/waiter frowns
slightly. He opens a cupboard door, withdraws a telephone,
brings it to the dinner table, and plugs it into a socket flushmounted on the burnished oak.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
Three. Patrolman Maupassant, responding
to an infrequently illuminated signal,
delivered a telephone to his superior.
The Commissaire picks up the receiver and signals for his mother
to pick up the extension.
Go ahead.

COMMISSAIRE

The Commissaire and his mother listen, stone-faced. She takes
notes. Roebuck Wright exchanges an anxious look with Chou-fleur.
INSERT:
Maman’s transcription (subtitled in English):
As you know by now, we have kidnapped your son
and absconded to a secure location which you
will never discover. Release (or execute) the
Abacus, and the little boy will be safely
returned to your custody. Failure to do so by
sun-up will result in your son’s violent death.

108.
The Commissaire hangs up, puzzled. He jolts to his feet and
darts out of the room.
CUT TO:
A hand-drawn cel-animation shot vividly illustrating the rooftop
of the préfecture headquarters in the bright moonlight. A stocky
kidnapper is positioned next to the open skylight window. A thin
kidnapper stands inside a large, black wicker basket.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
The getaway (and eventual motor pursuit)
was rendered vividly (if, perhaps, a bit
fancifully) in a comic strip published
the following week.
The somersaulting boy (Gigi) flies up through the skylight. The
stocky kidnapper catches him in his arms, quickly dumps him into
the basket, and climbs in after. The thin kidnapper pulls a
valve-chain, igniting a propane torch. The basket (now revealed
in a slow zoom-out to be attached to a pitch black, stealth hot
air balloon) rises -- carrying below it: the chauffeur, swaying
gently as the balloon travels up and completely disappears into
the night.
EXT. NARROW AVENUE. DAY
Early morning. A light snow falls on the doorstep of a low rent,
residential hotel.
TITLE:
Three Days Earlier
The door opens, and the number-cruncher pokes out and looks up
and down the sidewalk, nervous. He emerges in hat and overcoat
carrying a yellow suitcase clutched to his chest. He walks
briskly across the deserted street, through a narrow passageway,
down an alley to: a parked, late forties (running boards, wire
wheels) Citroën sedan. He gets in, tucks the suitcase beside
him, and puts the key into the ignition. The motor whinnies,
coughs, and sputters -- but fails to start. In the back seat, a
policeman rises into view, pistol fixed on the back of the
number-cruncher’s head. The number-cruncher looks in the
rearview mirror, then slowly raises his hands into the air. All
around the vehicle: a dozen additional officers appear from
behind and beneath various hiding places (trash can, window
ledge, rain barrel, horse cart, coal chute). A paddy-wagon
reverses into frame with a screech. The number-cruncher is
whisked out of the Citroën, handcuffed, and swept up into the
prisoner transport. A pair of iron doors slams shut.

109.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
Though the infamous Ennui gang war
“Winter Crimewave” had eradicated a
healthy number of thugs and hooligans, it
had also claimed the lives of a
disgraceful proportion of innocent
citizens. Due to the surprise capture of
the racketeering accountant Albert the
Abacus (in possession of a valise
containing payroll stubs for all three of
the city’s major syndicates), the lawabiding community’s hopes for an
accelerated resolution to the crisis had
been renewed. However: this turn of
events had forcefully rattled the cages
of the denizens of the criminal
underworld.
Suddenly, a barrage of machine gun fire perforates the paddywagon, the Citroën, the rain barrel, the horse cart, the coal
chute, most of the windows of the surrounding buildings, and the
bodies of a number of the assembled policemen. The surviving
officers return fire.
CUT TO:
The talk show. Roebuck Wright says, aside, to his host:
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
For myself, I had failed to recognize the
Abacus; but, as it happened: I knew the
chicken coop. (This is not in the
article, by the way.) If I refer to Mr.
Howitzer, do you know who I mean?
T.V. HOST
Of course.
(to the audience)
Arthur Howitzer, Jr. Founder and editor
of “The French Dispatch”.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
It was my first week in Ennui when I
suffered the misfortune of being arrested
in a drinking establishment on the
fringes of the Flop Quarter (along with a
number of newly-found companions).
T.V. HOST
What was the charge?
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
(simply)
Love. You see, people may or may not be
(more)

110.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (cont'd)
mildly threatened by your anger, your
hatred, your pride -- but love the wrong
way: and you will find yourself in great
jeopardy. In this case, a chicken coop
jail cell for six days straight. I had no
one who cared to rescue me, no one who
cared to scold me, and the only local
number committed to my typographic memory
was:
INSERT:
A brief memo on “French Dispatch” letterhead. It reads (echoed
by Howitzer himself in voiceover):
Dear Mr. Wright, While I regret we are unable to
publish either of these specific pieces, I would
be very pleased to consider other submissions in
the future -- or, if you find yourself in Ennui:
telephone me. You seem to know how to write.
Signed, A.H. Jr.
Handwritten below the initials: the publisher’s telephone
number.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
Printer’s District 9-2211.
CUT TO:
The jail cell. Roebuck Wright (aged thirty) is now on the
inside: disheveled, unshaven, gaunt.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
I’d never met the man. I knew how to
reach him only because I wanted a job.
A telephone slides through a meal-slot with a shlunk. Roebuck
Wright picks up the receiver and dials.
CUT TO:
A clock.
TITLE:
Thirty Minutes Later
The camera tilts down to reveal (on the other side of the iron
bars): Howitzer himself, seated on a folding chair, sipping a
cup of coffee. Roebuck Wright, inside his cell, fills out a
form, shakily, in pencil, on a clipboard. He finishes a last
sentence and slides the clipboard out the meal-slot. Howitzer
picks it up and studies the form.

111.
HOWITZER
Let’s see here.
(muttering quickly)
High school newspaper, poetry club, drama
society...
(clearly)
Wrote the school song. Words and music.
(muttering quickly)
Junior researcher, cub reporter,
assistant editor...
(clearly)
Fires and murders. That’s how I started.
My father owned the paper, of course.
(muttering quickly)
Bit of sports, bit of crime, bit of
politics...
(clearly)
Shortlisted twice. For “Best Essays”.
(muttering)
Deep South, Mid-west, East Coast...
(clearly)
Vast country. Haven’t been there for
twenty years.
A police guard appears with some paperwork to deliver to
Howitzer. He attempts to discreetly interrupt:
POLICE GUARD
Mr. Howitzer -Howitzer responds sharply, holding up a finger:
HOWITZER
Not now. I’m conducting a job interview.
The guard freezes, then evaporates. Howitzer presses on,
shuffling pages:
HOWITZER
Your writing samples are good. I re-read
them in the taxi. Ever done any book
reviews?

Never.

ROEBUCK WRIGHT
(hesitates)

HOWITZER
You’re going to be here another few hours
before they process you out. Read this -Howitzer holds up a thin, hardback novel titled ”Look Out
Below!”. The dust-jacket illustration depicts a carbonated,
multicolored highball cocktail (bubbles, swizzle stick, lipstick

112.
on the rim). A stamp on the cover reads: “Advance Copy”.
Howitzer puts the book through the meal-slot.
HOWITZER
-- and give me 300 words. I’ll pay you
500 francs, minus the 250 I advanced for
your bail (but I’ll re-advance half of
that back to you for cost-of-living).
Bring me a first draft tomorrow morning,
and however you go about it, Mr. Wright:
try to make it sound like you wrote it
that way on purpose.
CUT TO:
Close-up, Roebuck Wright. There are tears in his eyes.
Thank you.

ROEBUCK WRIGHT

CUT TO:
Close-up, Howitzer. He says softly:
No crying.

HOWITZER

CUT TO:
The talk show. Roebuck Wright says, matter of fact:
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
He was to be my employer (and friend) for
the next thirty years.
(resumes self-quoting)
It came to be known as the Night of a
Thousand Slugs. (I’m reciting again.)
MONTAGE:
A succession of interrogations: a bare-knuckle beating in a
warehouse; a head plunged into a tub of ice; a face propelled
down the length of a bar, smashing through glasses, bottles, and
shakers; an upside-down thug swinging by his ankles from a meat
hook; a hulking goon with one eyelid swollen shut drowsily
watching a swinging pocket-watch; two policemen and a suspect
standing on a tarmac as an inert man is hurled from a low-flying
police airplane. The body bounces and tumbles to a bone-crunched
halt.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
How the Commissaire and his elite team of
experts and analysts succeeded so swiftly
in determining the location of the
(more)

113.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.) (cont'd)
kidnappers’ lair -- well, I just don’t
know. The tools of the trade, I suppose.
The suspect, in handcuffs, looks horrified. The two policemen
are stoic. One, notebook in hand, pencil poised, says:
POLICEMAN
I’ll repeat the question.
EXT. TENEMENT HÔTEL. NIGHT
A glowing window at the top-floor of a decrepit apartment
building.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
But succeed they did.
Six stories down the semi-crumbling facade, in the entry
passageway, a scrawny cat licks an empty saucer. The small,
cobblestone square in front, gas lamplit, is surrounded on all
sides by rickety buildings of cheap flats. Uneven, narrow, stone
staircases ascend from the street corners up to the higher,
encircling rues and passages. A footbridge edges one side of the
place, a train truss edges another. Cramped shops (closed) line
the sidewalks. Métro station: Hovel District.
Tucked and hidden around the corner: a dense cordon of officers,
squad cars, and paddy-wagons. A gathering crowd of locals (the
butcher, the fishmonger, the tobacconist, assorted neighborhood
characters) quietly nudge and jostle behind a police barrier.
Faintly heard, echoing across the quartier: a music hall.
Otherwise: silence.
A locksmith’s shop serves as an improvised command center.
Ancient floor-plans and elevation-views, foxed and yellowed,
cover a long work-counter. A police-band radio hums and buzzes
while a voice broadcasts strategic instructions at a whisper.
The Commissaire, flanked by Maman, Chou-fleur, and Roebuck
Wright, peers out from the corner of a storefront window through
a pair of binoculars.
The camera pans/tilts up back to the glowing window at the top
of the decrepit building.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
Who were they? It was later revealed:
INT. TRIPLE APARTMENT. NIGHT
An expansive flat of small rooms, nooks/alcoves, and numerous
corridors which connect the top floors of various adjacent
buildings.

114.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
A hired crew of bandits and gunmen
imported by the ranking bosses of the
Ennui rackets and their network of
underworld middlemen.
In the sitting room: the chauffeur tunes and strums a guitar. In
the dining room: a stout man (cowboy hat, suit/necktie, dark
sunglasses) deals cards to a formidable, elderly woman. In the
kitchen: a scrawny thief tinkers with a dismantled radio. In the
corridor: a trio of hooligans of various dimensions stare into
space. In the bathroom: a quartet of showgirls bathe, paint
their toenails, and inject morphine. In front of a pad-locked
bedroom door: a pair of shoes (oxblood, lace up, the size of
Gigi’s feet).
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
Plus: one small, resourceful prisoner
determined to free himself and reduce
taxpayer expense.
INSERT:
Gigi’s bound hands in dim near-blackness. His fingers clink a
beat on a tarnished conduit with a half-centime coin.
INT/EXT. LAUNDRY CLOSET. NIGHT
Split-screen. On the right, Gigi in a chair, tied up in a dark
cupboard. On the left, one of the junkie showgirls, wrapped in a
towel, frowning and listening, as she inclines toward the
padlocked door. She chews gum.
SHOWGIRL
What’s that noise?
Gigi stops clinking. A beat.
GIGI
Air bubbles in the radiator pipes. It’s
pressurized.
SHOWGIRL
Sounds like Morse Code.
GIGI
(vaguely)
Vaguely. I’m Gigi, by the way. What’s
your name?
SHOWGIRL
I’m not going to tell you that. This is a
felony.

115.
GIGI
(defiant)
You’re not a criminal. You’re just a
mixed-up showgirl.
Ha.

SHOWGIRL

GIGI
Ha, yourself.
Pause. Gigi switches gears:
GIGI
Are you hungry? I can hear your stomach
growling.
Pause. Gigi tries once more:
GIGI
Sing me a lullaby. I’m scared.
No.

SHOWGIRL

Another pause. The showgirl sings a lullaby. She sighs.
SHOWGIRL
Are you asleep?

Yes.

GIGI
(quietly)

INSERT:
The Commissaire’s hand. He fingers a miniature cameo locket
which displays a photograph of the younger Gigi.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
The Commissaire adored Gigi with all his
voluminous heart.
The Commissaire paces up and down the room, fretting and
contemplating.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
However: his mind (that exceptional
machine for the detection and
investigation of criminal activity) had
been whirring since dinnertime, and he
was in a condition of dire calorific
depletion.

116.
The Commissaire stops and murmurs, finally giving in:
COMMISSAIRE
Maman? I’m hungry.
Maman (who has clearly been waiting for this moment) immediately
signals to an off-screen attendant and produces a collapsible
pocket-fork, which she unfolds. The Commissaire and Chou-fleur
follow suit. The patrolman/waiter swiftly covers a workbench
below the front window end-to-end with a checkered tablecloth.
The camera dollies away, into the back room (normally a diecasting and lathing workshop), which has been converted into a
temporary kitchen. A sheet of pastries warms over a bank of
emergency candles. A tray of shucked oysters cools over a bed of
dry ice. Small pots boil along radiator pipes. Meat and fowl in
states of mid-preparation hang from the ceiling in nets and
baskets. Portable ovens and bunsen burners glow and flicker at
lowest flame. Nescaffier whisks a froth in a bowl at a perfectly
continuous, robotic rate.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
Nescaffier, back in the field for the
first time in six years, came prepared to
dazzle.
The patrolman/waiter pokes his head into the room and nods.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
The change was instantaneous.
EXT. LOCKSMITH SHOP. NIGHT
The congregation of police and bystanders outside wait in
respectful silence while, seated in the window, behind a pulled
blind, in silhouette: the Commissaire, Maman, Chou-fleur, and
Roebuck Wright all watch Nescaffier’s shadow enter carrying a
serving tray. The Commissaire rises to his feet and wafts the
scent into his nose.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
Even as the faintest hints of the aromas
of the great chef’s kitchen ribboned into
the Commissaire’s nostrils, he began to
envision and formulate a multi-pronged
battle-plan.
MONTAGE:
Split-screen: on the right, the Commissaire, seated at the
workbench table in the locksmith shop, speaks excitedly to Choufleur while eating continuously with his left hand only; on the
left, a small, speckled, boiled egg split open to reveal layers
of whipped yolk mousse.

117.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
To start: deviled eggs of the
precinct canary served in
shells of its own meringue.

COMMISSAIRE
Send a commando unit to secure
all access points to the south
and west.

On the right, the Commissaire, seated at the workbench table in
the locksmith shop, speaks excitedly to Maman while eating
continuously with his left hand only; on the left: a saucer of
gibiers and fruits des bois.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
Next: kidneys poached with
plums from the mayor’s rooftop
arbor.

COMMISSAIRE
Send a guerrilla detachment to
block all egress routes to the
east and north.

On the right, the Commissaire illustrates (using arrows and X’s)
his scheme/strategy on one of the building floor plan maps; on
the left, small boulettes shaped and packaged like a bowl of
candies.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
Then: minced lamb bon-bons in
pastry wrappers.

COMMISSAIRE (V.O.)
Drill tunnels (circumference:
75mm) through the partition
walls of all three adjacent
buildings.

On the right, teenage boys and girls in shooting costumes perch
among high chimney tops; on the left, another thermos.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
Blasé oyster soup.

COMMISSAIRE (V.O.)
On the rooftops: amateur
snipers from the local hunting
club.

On the right, a quartet of gear-laden climbers in lederhosen
scramble in formation up a dark alley; on the left: a roasted
bird, boneless, bloody, chopped with potatoes, and served in a
paper cup.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
A magnificent city-park pigeon
hash.

COMMISSAIRE (V.O.)
Down the elevator shaft:
amateur climbers from the
district Alpinist society.

On the right, a light clicks on as an enormous wrestler (in a
striped singlet) is awakened from slumber by a ringing
telephone; on the left, a nicotine pot de crème with a white
blob on top.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
Finally: tabac pudding with
quadruple cream.
CUT TO:

COMMISSAIRE (V.O.)
Wake up the Jeroboam, too. I
want him limber, just in case.

118.
The talk show (once again). The host gently cuts in:
T.V. HOST
May I interrupt? With a question.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
Please. Just permit me to dog-ear the
page. Mentally.
T.V. HOST
Forgive me. I beg your pardon.
Ready.

ROEBUCK WRIGHT
Heavens, no. Whatever for?

ROEBUCK WRIGHT

T.V. HOST
You’ve written about the American negro,
the French intellectual, the Southern
romantic; scripture, mythology, folklore;
true crime, false crime; the ghost story,
the picaresque, the bildungsroman -- but,
more than anything, over all these years:
you’ve written about food. Why?
Roebuck Wright stiffens and crosses his arms snugly across his
chest. Pause. He counts with five fingers:
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
Who? What? Where? When? How. Valid
questions -- but I learned as a cub
stringer: never, under any circumstance,
if it is remotely within your power to
resist the impulse, never ask a man why.
It tightens the fellow up.
(referring to his own posture)
Look at me.
T.V. HOST
(hesitates)
I apologize: but I’m going to hold you to
it -Torture.

ROEBUCK WRIGHT

T.V. HOST
-- if you’ll allow me.

ROEBUCK WRIGHT
(Self-reflection is a vice
best conducted in private or
not at all.)

ROEBUCK WRIGHT
Well, I’ll answer the question, out of
sheer weariness, but I truly don’t know
what I’m about to say.

119.
Silence. Roebuck Wright’s arms drop. He sighs deeply and speaks
from some new chamber of his mind/heart:
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
There is a particular, sad beauty wellknown to the companionless foreigner as
he walks the streets of his adopted
(preferably, moonlit) city. (In my case,
Ennui, France.) I have so often shared
the day’s glittering discoveries with: no
one at all. But always, somewhere along
the avenue or the boulevard: there was a
table. Set for me. A cook, a waiter, a
bottle, a glass, a fire. I chose this
life. It is the solitary feast that has
been (very much like a comrade) my great
comfort and fortification.
A tear (perhaps) rolls down Roebuck Wright’s cheek. The T.V.
host produces a clean handkerchief and offers it. Roebuck Wright
laughs (almost silently) and rolls his eyes as he takes it.
T.V. HOST
Do you remember where you placed the
bookmark?
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
Of course. “Meanwhile.”
(back to the story)
Meanwhile, across the street:
CUT TO:
The radio, partially reassembled. It crackles to life. A
broadcast voice whispers:
POLICE BANDWIDTH
Be informed: suspects’ lair is top floor,
lower edge of square; officers are
already in place around perimeter and
surrounding rooftops; maintain extreme
discretion and caution approaching
location. Repeat...
The scrawny thief scrambles out of the kitchen, jolts into the
front window, and pulls the curtains slightly ajar. The other
members of the gang instinctively flock around him to look out,
as well.
CUT TO:
The gang’s point-of-view of the square below: empty. Silence. A
single cigarette flicks through the air from behind a corner and
sparks onto the cobblestones.

120.
The chauffeur squints.
CUT TO:
The Commissaire monitoring the radio. He has a sudden intuition.
He peers under the locksmith’s blinds. From the top floor flat:
one first bang, then a storm of gunfire.
CUT TO:
Inside the lair. The apartment has been flash-converted into a
fortress/armory. Pistols, rifles, a machine gun on a tripod,
plus a military ordnance grenade launcher. Everyone (chauffeur,
Stetson, spinster, showgirls, thugs, thief) blasts away at the
square below.
Every window shatters. Bricks and mortar explode. Vehicles are
blown to smithereens. The teenage snipers shoot back from the
rooftops. Police duck for cover. Blood, smoke, falling bodies,
screaming, etc.
The Commissaire, on the floor of the locksmith shop, showered in
shards and splinters (with his mother, his best friend, and our
reporter) repeats over and over into the radio microphone:
COMMISSAIRE
Hold your fire! Hold your fire! Hold your
fire!
CUT TO:
A tiny, old man in a mezzanine listening keenly at a radiator
down-pipe while the bullets bang and ricochet outside. He puts
on a stethoscope, holds it against the tarnished brass, and
begins to take notes.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
During a lull in the skirmish, an ancient
concierge, veteran of two wars, limped
across the street to deliver an enigmatic
message.
INSERT:
A scrap of graph paper studded with dots and dashes and a
translation below: “S E N D T H E C O O K”.
INT. LOCKSMITH SHOP. NIGHT
Above the counter: a final lightbulb pops (gunshot). Silence.
TITLE:

121.
One Hour Later
CUT TO:
The scarred and battered square. The Commissaire, hands in the
air, steps carefully into view. He carries a loudspeaker. His
voice reverberates across the square:
COMMISSAIRE
I’m speaking to the leader of the gang of
kidnappers on the top floor.
No response. The Commissaire continues:
COMMISSAIRE
Do you have a working kitchen in your
lair?
No response. The Commissaire continues:
COMMISSAIRE
My son needs a snack. Allow us to send in
our precinct cook along with some
supplies and provisions. He will prepare
a supper of sufficient proportions to
feed you and all your accomplices. (We
already ate.)
CUT TO:
The gang conferring all at once at a murmur (“Of course not!”
“Are they kidding?” “They think we’re stupid.” etc.) until the
chauffeur has a realization. He leans slightly in front of the
window and shouts:
CHAUFFEUR
Is it an underling -- or Nescaffier
himself?
The Commissaire gives a signal. Nescaffier appears. He salutes
up to the unseen kidnappers. Aside: he and the Commissaire
exchange a look of grim defiance (and fear).
INT. SERVICE STAIRS. NIGHT
Nescaffier, cast in dark shadow, carries a short tower of boxes
and cartons (meat, produce, bread, butter, etc.) as he calmly
ascends the winding steps. On top of the stack: a bowl of
radishes -- which appear to glow in the darkness.
INT. KITCHEN. NIGHT
The gang sits on chairs and stools crowded around a breakfast
table set with nine identical dinners on segmented, prison-style

122.
plates: a savory winter tart, purée, vivid greens, radishes. Two
more plates rest on the sideboard. Nescaffier stands apart,
hands folded, apron splattered. In the background: the stove,
oven, and sink are a battleground strewn with pots, pans,
knives, spoons, etc. In the next room: the thief watches the
street from the machine gun’s telescopic sight.
Nescaffier explains humbly:
NESCAFFIER
Blackbird pie.
Nescaffier backs away slightly.
The chauffeur holds up his finger: wait. He quickly prepares a
small side-dish with a taste of each item from his own plate and
those of the thug and spinster on either side of him. He hands
the dish to Nescaffier.
The gang watches as Nescaffier, without hesitation, takes out
his own fourchette de poche and eats everything -- including,
finally, a single radish.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
Required, of course, to sample each item,
the chef ate the deathly poison -The thief appears in the doorway to collect his plate, one of
the showgirls (murmuring: “for the little boy”) carries another
plate down the corridor, and the rest of the gang attacks their
dinners.
The chauffeur pauses suddenly. The others hesitate, watching.
The chauffeur says crisply to Nescaffier:
CHAUFFEUR
Write down the recipe.
Nescaffier nods, and they all continue their voracious grazing.
CUT TO:
The lair as it is breached all at once from three directions: a
large hole blasts through one wall, a large drill ruptures
through another, the Alpinists drop from a trap door in the
ceiling. The apartment fills with climbers and commandos. They
all freeze.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
-- but Nescaffier survived: thanks to the
extreme fortitude (bolstered and braced,
season upon season, by the richest, most
potent plates, pans, and sauce pots) of
his almost superhuman stomach.

123.
Strewn across the floor: dead kidnappers and empty plates.
Nescaffier lies -- half-unconscious, shivering, but alive -among them. The commandos immediately jump to his aid, injecting
him with three pre-loaded syringes of brightly colored medicine,
slipping a tube down his throat, pipetting droplets into his
eyes, massaging arms, legs, heart. As they continue these
ministrations, the camera moves out of the room, down the
corridor, to the open closet door. On the floor: another plate,
not quite empty. A trio of radishes remains.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
He knew well, of course: Gigi loathed and
despised the radish in all its forms with
a deep, unbridled passion, and had never
so much as touched one (or even spoken
the word) during his entire young
lifetime.
Across the room: one more plate, also with a handful of leftover
radishes on it.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
However, as it happened, the chauffeur
hated radishes, too.
Outside: an alarm bell rings. The commandos run to the window
and look down into the square.
(Note: the following sequence is rendered entirely in the same
hand-drawn cel-animation method and style previously established
for the hot air balloon getaway.)
CUT TO:
The commandos’ P.O.V: straight down from the window looking at
the square. The courtyard gate bursts open, and a two-door
Citroën sedan (chauffeur at wheel, Gigi beside him) roars out
into the square, smashing through barricades and scattering the
crowd of officers and onlookers before rumbling away up a blind
impasse under the street-sign: “Pick-pocket Cul-de-Sac.
The Commissaire, Maman, Chou-fleur, and Roebuck Wright scramble
out of the locksmith shop and leap into their own Citroën. The
Commissaire cranks the motor. It stutters.
After a double-circling U-turn: the chauffeur and Gigi’s Citroën
comes squealing and careening from the cul-de-sac back into the
square. The wrestler springs out of a paddy-wagon, side-steps in
front of the weaving vehicle, and hurtles himself onto the hood
with a whang. The chauffeur looks shocked. Gigi looks ecstatic.
The wrestler rips off the windshield wipers and attempts to pull
the car apart while also struggling desperately not to fall off.
The chauffeur accelerates through a corner and up a different
road.

124.
The Commissaire gets the engine going and slams his foot down on
the gas pedal, revving up in pursuit of the other vehicle.
Narrow streets. Twisty corners. A tunnel and a bridge. The two
cars scream through the sleeping city. At the top of a hill: the
chauffeur skids to a stop and jumps out (with the bound Gigi
tucked under his arm). He sprints away down a staircase. The
wrestler runs after him.
The Commissaire jolts to a stop behind the other car. He and
Roebuck Wright bounce out and run after the others (Maman and
Chou-fleur stay behind).
A high-speed foot chase takes them down a drainpipe, across a
catwalk, under a scaffolding, over a stone wall -- then back up
to the parked cars. The chauffeur shoots back into the driver’s
seat and guns the engine. Just as he tears away, the wrestler
manages to jump back onto the hood, furious. The Commissaire and
Roebuck Wright rejoin Maman and Chou-fleur, and the car chase
resumes.
On a long straightaway: Gigi suddenly pokes up his head from his
car’s canvas sunroof. He finishes unscrambling the bindings
around his arms, and his hands are free. The chauffeur attempts
to grab at Gigi while still piloting the Citroën. The
Commissaire shouts to Roebuck Wright:
COMMISSAIRE
Take the wheel!
The Commissaire climbs out the window of the racing vehicle and
crawls onto the hood. Roebuck Wright, horrified, lunges into the
driver’s seat. Gigi pops out fully onto the roof of the other
car, then leaps from one moving vehicle back toward the other,
sailing through the air, arms and legs splayed -- into his
father’s arms. They are both knocked back smashing into the
windshield (which cracks), then tumble up onto the rooftop and
slash down through their own ripping canvas sunroof into the
laps of Maman and Chou-fleur.
The chauffeur misjudges the next turn, slides off the street,
cracks through a guardrail, flies bashing into a dry riverbed,
and explodes into a spectacular fireball. The wrestler tumbles
to safety and lands in “neutral position”.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
Perhaps the most stirring (and startling)
phenomenon witnessed over the trajectory
of that protracted dinner date was this:
In the back seat: Gigi slaps his father hard across the face.
The Commissaire's hat, glasses, cigarette, hairpiece, and
eyebrows all fly off his head in different directions. The
Commissaire looks astonished, Gigi looks shocked. The

125.
Commissaire quickly re-attaches his false eyebrows -- then both
begin to simultaneously laugh and cry. They kiss and embrace.
(Note: resume live-action.)
EXT. POLICE HEADQUARTERS. DAY
A troop of armed police escort a plainclothesman -- carrying the
number-cruncher’s yellow suitcase handcuffed to his wrist -across a street to an armored transport. The plainclothesman
trips on the curb, the suitcase snaps open, and the air
instantly fills with fluttering documents which confetti into an
expanding cloud out over the banks of the river.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
Often, in fiction, the illicit treasure
which has cost and destroyed so many
lives is finally plucked away by the hand
of destiny, vaporized into smoke,
dispersed to the winds, etc. This did not
occur.
The camera booms down below the sidewalk to glimpse an endless
underground cache of anonymous file cabinets and forgotten
storage boxes. The briefest pause, then the camera booms back up
to the cloud of papers.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
The pay stubs remain sealed in a humiditycontrolled, underground evidence vault;
but: in light of the judicial ruling (due
to bribery) which declared the entire
trove legally inadmissible -The camera booms back up to the cloud of papers.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (V.O.)
-- this staged imagining does seem
appropriate in its depiction of a grand,
thematic pointlessness.
INT. JAIL CELL. DAY
The number-cruncher, still behind bars, eats his breakfast. He
looks happy. Seated outside the cell, still connected to a
rolling I.V. drip but only slightly the worse for wear,
Nescaffier watches and pours himself a glass of the lilaccolored aperitif (from a thermos, of course).
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
A delicious irony: M. Albert, accountant
to the demi-monde and remote cause of the
entire spectacular contretemps, had been
entirely forgotten in the chicken coop
(more)

126.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT (cont'd)
from Thursday dinner to Monday breakfast
and had very nearly starved in his cell.
It was only the convalescent M.
Nescaffier himself who retained the
presence of mind to prepare the prisoner
an omelette à la policier which he
delivered warm, wrapped in a day-old
search warrant.
INT. TELEVISION STUDIO. DAY
Back on the talk show, Roebuck Wright concludes:
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
The Abacus ate well that morning.
Silence. The host, respectful, turns to camera.
T.V. HOST
A word from Gemini Toothpowder.
INT. WRITER’S OFFICE (ROEBUCK WRIGHT). DAY
On the daybed: Roebuck Wright reposes, smoking, hands folded
across his lap. In the corner: the cheery writer reads a pocket
atlas and eats breadsticks. At the desk: Howitzer, feet on the
table, flips through out-of-order pages. He grumbles:
HOWITZER
It was supposed to be an article about a
great chef.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
(untroubled)
It is. In part.
HOWITZER
For the Tastes and Smells section.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
I understand. The assignment was
perfectly clear. Perhaps you fail to
grasp: I was shot at and hand grenaded
against my will. I only asked to be fed
(and was, marvelously, as I describe in
some detail).
HOWITZER
(doubtful)
Nescaffier only gets one line of
dialogue.

127.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
(long pause)
Well, I did cut something he told me. It
made me too sad. I could stick it back
in, if you like.
HOWITZER
(guardedly optimistic)
What’d he say?
Roebuck Wright floats to the wastebasket, digs briefly, and
withdraws a single, crumpled page. He tosses it, underhand, to
Howitzer, who snatches it out of the air and snaps it open in
one motion.
EXT. LOCKSMITH SHOP. NIGHT
Over the street gutter: the shrouded bodies of the dead
kidnappers rest in a neat row along the cobblestones. Below a
streetlamp: the Commissaire clutches Gigi at his side as he
addresses members of the press. Under a white tent: Nescaffier,
on a gurney, eyes closed, continues to receive intravenous
medication. Roebuck Wright sits next to him on a stool.
Suddenly: Nescaffier speaks:
NESCAFFIER
They had a flavor.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
(hesitates)
I beg your pardon?
NESCAFFIER
The toxic salts. In the radishes. They
had a flavor. Totally unfamiliar to me.
Like a bitter, moldy, peppery, spicy,
oily kind of -- earth. I never tasted
that taste in my life. Not very pleasant,
extremely poisonous, but still: a new
flavor. That’s a rare thing, at my age.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
(pause)
I admire your bravery, Lieutenant.
NESCAFFIER
(genuinely)
I’m not brave. I just wasn’t in the mood
to be a disappointment to everybody.
(in explanation)
I’m a foreigner, you know.

128.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
(long pause)
This city is full of us, isn’t it? I’m
one, myself.
Nescaffier is aware of this. He says, slightly delirious:
NESCAFFIER
Seeking something missing. Missing
something left behind.
Roebuck Wright nods in appreciation. He says quietly:
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
Maybe, with good luck, we’ll find what
eluded us in the places we once called
home.
Nescaffier smiles sadly and shakes his head: no.
CUT TO:
Howitzer and Roebuck Wright. Howitzer says, pleased/annoyed:
HOWITZER
That’s the best part of the whole thing.
That’s the reason for it to be written.
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
(flattered/irritated)
I couldn’t agree less.
HOWITZER
(hesitates)
Well, anyway, don’t cut it.

129.

Postscript
(pages 130 to 132)

130.
INT. EDITORIAL OFFICE. EVENING
On a table: the proofreader. On the couch: the story editor and
legal advisor. In the corner: the cheery writer. Also: Berensen,
Sazerac, Krementz. The copy boy (lingering near the door,
apparently still employed at the magazine) has tears on his face
again -- but, it appears: so does everyone else.
The door opens, and Roebuck Wright enters. He stands, frozen,
staring across the room. The alumna looks up from her spiral
bound notebook.
ALUMNA
Are we all here? I guess you know. It was
a heart attack. He’s dead.
On the desk: Howitzer’s body, under a tablecloth, surrounded by
a multitude of strewn telegrams. A bearded doctor takes off his
stethoscope and tucks it into a bag resting on the chest of the
corpse.
Excuse me.

DOCTOR

The doctor takes the bag and exits. The alumna grits her teeth,
fighting herself -- then, suddenly: she is sobbing. Berensen
grips her arm to comfort her (a bit stern). Krementz points
above the door and says simply:
No crying.

KREMENTZ

The alumna immediately stops crying. She takes a deep breath.
Roebuck Wright folds back the upper edge of the tablecloth,
looks down at Howitzer’s face (peaceful) for a moment, then
covers him up again. The cheery writer asks grimly:
CHEERY WRITER
Is somebody coming to take him away?
The legal advisor checks his watch. He explains:
LEGAL ADVISOR
There’s a strike at the morgue.
In the next room (seen through a glass partition): the doctor
makes arrangements on the telephone. The usual waiter enters
carrying an American-style birthday cake. He hesitates. Roebuck
Wright asks, hands on Howitzer’s shoulders:
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
Who was with him?

131.
STORY EDITOR
He was alone. Reading birthday telegrams.
The waiter places the cake onto the table and lights a match.
Krementz interrupts with a blunt:
KREMENTZ
Don’t light the candles. He’s dead.
Pause. The waiter blows out the match. Sazerac murmurs sadly:
SAZERAC
I’ll have a slice.
The waiter prepares cake for Sazerac. Roebuck Wright gestures:
just a sliver for me. The alumna pulls herself together.
ALUMNA
We need to draft something. Who wants it?
The proofreader scribbles on a chit, snaps her fingers, and
passes the chit to the copy boy as she explains:
PROOFREADER
We’ve got a file.
The copy boy dashes out the door. Hermès Jones, doodling on a
paper napkin, announces:
HERMÈS JONES
I’m working on the art.
INSERT:
The coffee-stain and confiture caricature of Howitzer seen at
the start of the film, two-thirds finished.
Sazerac studies the picture. He smiles.
SAZERAC
That’s him.
Roebuck Wright turns on an electric typewriter (next to the
deceased) as he says, including all the assembled reporters:
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
Let’s write it together.
The writers variously: push back from their tables, fold their
hands in their laps, look up toward the ceiling, look off into
space, etc. as they begin to mentally outline the story. The
waiter asks, puzzled:

132.
WAITER
Write what?
ALUMNA
The obituary.
The waiter nods, finally understanding. The copy boy returns
with a folder which he unfolds on the desk. Roebuck Wright types
as he dictates:
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
Arthur Howitzer, Jr. Born in North
Kansas, ten miles from the geographical
center of the United States.
ALUMNA
Mother died when he was five.
STORY EDITOR
Son of a newspaper publisher, founder of
this magazine.
BERENSEN
“The French Dispatch”. Previously known
as “Picnic”.
KREMENTZ
A largely unread Sunday supplement to the
Liberty, Kansas Evening Sun.
SAZERAC
It began as a holiday.
HERMÈS JONES
Is that true?
Sort of.

SAZERAC

Mumbling and sad laughter. Roebuck Wright says finally:
ROEBUCK WRIGHT
What happens next?
CUT TO:
The office from the next room (seen through the glass
partition). Roebuck Wright resumes typing, and the writers and
staff, gathering closer around him, continue to remember and
recount.

THE FRENCH DISPATCH
Gallery of images