HARDWARE
by
RICHARD STANLEY

Revised by
MICHAEL FALLON

Missing pg. 80

DARKNESS. WIND.
Dry.
Relentless.
FADE IN:
EXT. THE WASTELAND – DAWN
The Darkness becomes a shifting veil of sand and we are inside
the funnel of a dust storm. The veil parts, momentarily revealing
a vista of dunes, a thin poisonous wind shipping across them in a
crimson spray. Then the veil closes again, shifting to reveal a
new tableau.
Abstract shapes silhoutted against a red sky.
A steel fence post.
A coil of barbed wire.
A body, its outline softened by the dust, broken and half-buried,
its ragged uniform fluttering in a mockery of life.
A glint of dusty metal.
A minefield laid bare by the restless wind.
Another shape gains resolution in the dust.
A steel hand appears, jointed fingers pointed skyward, veins an
intricate web of cables and hydraulic tubing, born of fire.
A seething dust cloud appears low on the horizon, a dark shape
emerging from its swirling grain, fluttering for a moment like a
grounded bat, drawing closer, becoming the figure of a NOMAD
swathed in a flapping scarf and a ragged duster, face shadowed by
a wide-brimmed hat, shoulders hunched beneath the weight of a
bulging military backpack. He holds a long stick like a spear in
one hand and as he approaches we see the sunlight glistening on
his tinted blast goggles and on the transparent respirator that
protects his face.
The nomad is moving hurriedly, trying to keep ahead of the storm,
his eyes nervously scanning the horizon.
There is a sharp crack and two flares drift down behind him like
will-o’-the-wisps falling from the red sky.
He glances around and his eyes catch a glint of metal through the
gloom.
Slowing, he weaves his way across the minefield, feeling out a
path with the tip of his stick, his eyes focused on a shape
buried beneath a low ridge of sand.
He sees the reaching synthetic hand and hunches beside it,
sweeping away the dust, the wind helping him, and slowly a face
emerges from the earth.

:

A steel face with eyes like red jewels, features scorched and
marked by shrapnel wounds.The nomad begins to dig more swiftly
now.
He glances furtively around and then looks down, smiling at his
discovery.
The steel skull could be smiling back at him.
DISSOLVE TO:
INT. JILL'S APARTMENT – DAWN
A landscape of metal sculpture. Crash helmets and motorcycle
fenders blend into the screaming faces of grotesquely customized
domestic androids, reaching waldo arms and webs of barbed wire
and rubber tubing filling every square inch of the bedroom,
bathroom, kitchen and connecting hallway.
A digital clock radio on the stereo system flicks to "6:OO A.M"
and HEAVY METAL comes crashing forth from the radio.
INT. KITCHEN
An automatic coffee maker simultaneously begins to BURBLE and
spills a spattering stream of soy-cafe into a glass tureen.
INT. APARTMENT
The sole occupant of the apartment is already awake. A figure is
crouched in the midst of the tangle of sculptures, surrounded by
numerous pencil sketches of insects, face hidden by a battered
welding mask, body swathed in paint-spattered overalls, the
nozzle of an oxy-acetylene torch held in gloved hands, sparks
showering everywhere.
The door buzzer rings: a long held BUZZZZZZZZ. The metal worker
curses, turns off the gas and crosses to a computer control
console in the lounge, On the way, she turns down the music to a
dull throb.
She props up her welding mask and types a series of digits into
the computer. Her face is prematurely careworn but attractive.
She's in her late twenties, her hair hanging in strands, her face
slick with sweat. Her name is JILL.
A screen blinks into life on the console, patching into a
security camera that is trained outside the apartment door.
There's no one there.
She bites her lower lip and taps a few more keys and gets a view
down the hall and then a view from the other direction. No one
there. She exhales in frustration and types.

:

After a few seconds of electronic snow the face of a blonde kid
appears in a haze. He's got a bandanna wrapped around his
forehead and a wad of gum in his teeth. This is VERNON.
VERNON
Yo.
JILL
Vernon, is the Chief there?
VERNON
Hi, Miss Monroe. No, he's out on his rounds
right now. I can have him call ya.
JILL
Those kids from two were at my door again.
VERNON
When was this?
JILL
Just now.
VERNON
We didn't see anybody.
JILL
That's what worries me.
VERNON
Huh?
JILL
Listen, Vernon, I've got a delivery coming from
Foodstuffs today. Be sure to let 'em up.
VERNON
Will do, Miss Monroe.
The screen blinks off. Jill mutters.
JILL
Probably the only one who won't make it through
his "net”.
She walks to the kitchen, pours a cup of coffee, comes back out,
turns the MUSIC BACK UP, flips down her visor and goes back to
work.

:

CAMERA MOVES PAST HER TO the window, looking out on the city -- a
large urban metropolis somewhere in the future. Mile high
chimneys rise against the smog-filled morning sky.
EXT. SCRAPYARD – DAY
MUSIC OVER. A scrapvard on the outskirts of the city. The remains
of cars and mangled ward machines lie in corroding mounds and
oily clouds streaked with sparks billow from the mouths of forges
and furnace stacks.
Shadowy FIGURES move through the smoke, welding irons glowing
in their hands, unloading untidy barrows of scrap onto clattering
conveyor belts.
The air is thick with the THUNDER of heavy machinery, the
distorted CRIES of men and the CRACKLE of radio static.
The VOICE of a DEEJAY comes over the airwaves.
ANGRY BOB
This is Angry Bob coming at you on W.A.R. Radio
with the good news and the bad news. Bad news
is the heatwave's not going to let up. It's
expected to hit ninety downtown before
nightfall, although weather control keeps
promising that rain is on the way. The foul up
on the launch pad at terminal eight doesn't
look like it's gonna clear for another half
hour and holiday air traffic is still stacking
up over the CBD and all outlying districts. But
traffic control promises that if you all keep
cool they'll get you home in time for
Christmas. As for the good news -- I forget
what the good news was, so let's just play some
music!
The deejay LAUGHS, his voice echoing maniacally as METAL crashes
across the wavelengths, spilling out into the scrapyard from an
old transistor radio that's been left standing on the hood of a
wrecked car.
MO BAXTER and his friend SHADES are traversing the yard. MO is
still young, his muscular build betraying long hours of obsessive
bench pressing. His blond hair is close-cropped and he wears
patched and fazed military uniform, his shirt unbuttoned to
reveal a vest that is hand-painted with a blazing skull. A jagged
scar zig-zags across his left cheek and his left hand is missing
altogether, replaced by a robot prosthesis. A large grey duffle
is thrown over his shoulder. Shades is a scrawny individual
wearing a leather flying jacket and a three-day growth of beard.

:

He squints through the dark lenses of his trademark glasses.
Shades is talking his usual blue streak, Mo has on a tolerant
half-smile.
SHADES
New York, Max. That's the place' to make it
now. Just think of it. Over nine thousand tons
of steel.
(more)
SHADES (Cont'd)
Five thousand tons of aluminum. Four million
miles of copper wire. Twelve thousand windows.
Tons of audio gear. Auto parts. Typewriters.
Kitchen appliances. Works of art still in the
galleries. Just hanging there. Clothing.
Toupees. Bridgework. False teeth. Prosthetic
limbs. You name it. There's a killing to be
made. New York has it all. Nobody's gonna
repopulate the Big Apple, now. It's too ripe
with radiation. The count's way up. All that
stuff's just going begging. It's salvage city,
Max. You'd love it.
MO
Stop calling me Max.
SHADES
Why not? It's a good name. Anyway, give New
York some thought. It's a lot safer than the
zone and the move would do you good.
MO
I can't afford the outlay. You'd need rad
suits, jeeps, drilling gear... I'm saving up to
retire in peace.

SHADES
Retire to what?
Mo gives a nod to the overalled workers as he and Shades head up
to the dilapidated warehouse at the center of the yard.

INT. ROBOT BREAKER'S WAREHOUSE - DAY
Mo and Shades step through the sliding doors into a large hall.
It’s wide as an aircraft hanger, lit by hanging flourescent tube
and dusty skylights.

:

The remains of gutted electronic equipment and dismembered
androids are stacked everywhere, mechanical limbs and hydraulic
tubing dangling from the rafters, giving the place the appearance
of a cannibal's den. ALVY, a dwarf clad in threadbare, greasecovered overeralls and holding a spanner in one hand, is hunched
over the shivering, partly-animated torso of a malfunctioning
domestic bot. He looks up from his work at the approaching pair
and grins.
ALVY.
Well, well, well. Taking a little vacation,
huh? Is this authorized?
Mo slips the bag of his shoulder. It hits the floor with a
shifting CLANK.
MO
What do you care? Nothing that comes in here is
authorized.
ALVY
That's not true, I’m primarily legitimate, now,
I'll have you know.
MO
Oh...?
Mo lifts the bag off the floor with one hand.
MO
Perhaps I should go elsewhere, then.
ALVY
I said primarily legitimate.
He shoves the quivering android off the table into a rolling
tamper. He brushes wood and metal filings from the table-top with
his sleeve.
ALVY
Put it right here and let's see what you've
got. Let me get my glass.
Alvy hops down from the bench and scurries into the nether
reaches of the warehouse. Mo hefts the bag onto the bench. Unzips
it.
Behind them the warehouse doors open with a tremulant RUMBLE. Mo
and Shades turn around. A figure is silhouetted against the
blazing daylight. It's the nomad. Coming toward them. He tips his
hat up to look at them. Speaks in a low voice.

:

NOMAD
Where’s the little man?
Mo steps forward, just a trifle hesitantly. Taking charge.
MO
He’s indisposed. You got something to sell?
The nomad tips his head foreward. Eyes Mo awhile. Then... what
the hell. He nods. Unloads his sack on the table. Steel skull,
dismembered metal arms, a limbless torso – tubing spilling from
the guts -- and several spidery subsidiary arms terminating in
pincers and drill bits.
SHADES
What the fuck?
Shades picks up the skull, awestruck. The nomad delicately takes
it from him and replaces it.
MO
What is it?
The nomad slowly shakes his head.
MO
Where'd you find it?
The nomad moves his head slightly to indicate a distant world.
NOMAD
Nowheresville.
Mo and Shades nod. They know what he means.
NOMAD
Looks like it stepped on a frag mine. No legs
at all and the torso is... all fucked up.
MO
(quickly)
What do you want for it?
Shades looks at him, shocked.
NOMAD
Fifty.
Now Shades looks at him!

:

MO
Too much. Thirty.
NOMAD
(no nonsense)
Fifty.
MO
Forty?
The nomad nods.
NOMAD
Done.
MO
(to Shades)
Pay the man.
A stunned Shades peels off bills as Mo stuffs the robot parts
into his own bag of the floor. The nomad turns and heads out.
MO
That was easy.
Mo hefts the bag onto the table. Alvy returns just as the figure
of the departing nomad is eaten up by the blazing sunlight. Alvy
squints after him.
ALVY
Who was that?
MO
Somebody looking for a bathroom. I sent him on
his way.
ALVY
Why doesn't he piss in the street like
everybody else?
Alvy clambers up onto the bench, rubbing his hands together. He
plucks a large magnifying glass from his back pocket.
ALVY
Now what have you got for me?
Mo unzips the bag and turns it over. Metal THUNDERS out. Alvy
leans over the pile of parts. His eyes widen almost
imperperceptibly at the sight of the skull. A pulse of

:

excitement. He glances at the otheres to make sure they didn't
notice. Then he shrugs indifferently.
Shades picks up the skull again. Now he can peruse it in earnest.
Alvy’s eyes can’t help but to follow it. He tries to keep his
voice casual.
ALVY
Where'd you get that?
Mo glances at Shades.
MO
I found it out in the zone. What do you think
it is?
ALVY
(shrugging)
Maintenance drone, probably.
Mo furrows his brow doubtfully.
MO
You think so?
SHADES
Kinda scary-looking for a maintenance drone.
ALVY
That's the idea. Keeps the scavengers away,
Y'see, you got a downed vehicle somewhere in
the middle of nowhere, no survivors, you can
drop a couple of these and have it put back
together in no time.
Shades looks the skull in the eye.
SHADES
Nobody around to put him back together, though,
huh?
MO
It doesn't have any legs at all that I could
find and the torso's all fucked up. Stepped on
a frag mine, I guess. Musta got lost.
Shades grins slyly at him.
SHADES
You figure?

:

Mo narrows his eyes briefly at him. Alvy plucks the skull from
his hands. Shades frowns. Alvy shines a light in the android's
eyes.
ALVY
Not much I can do with this. I can use the
infra-reds. Breadboard up a couple of new
circuits.
(shrugging)
How about thirty C's to take it off your hands?
MO
Thirty?!
(shaking his head)
No thanks, Alvy. Maybe I'll just hold onto
it...
Mo takes the skull and sticks it back into the bag. An alarm off
behind Alvy's eyes.
ALVY
Hold onto it?! What--- ? Forty C's...
Mo eyes him. Half-smiling.
MO
I thought it was worthless.
ALVY
It is! It is worthless! But it's even more
worthless to you!
MO
Jeez, you weren't trying to low-ball me, were
you, Alvy? You wouldn't cheat me...
Alvy shakes his head, watching the pieces disappear into the
sack.
ALVY
No I wouldn't cheat you, but... but... It is
junk, but...what are you gonna do with it?
MO
It's Christmas Eve. You should know that. You
used to be an elf, didn't you? I can't exactly
come back to my girl empty-handed, can I?
ALVY
Wouldn't she rather have a nice ...bouquet of
flowers, maybe? They've got some beautiful
stuff at the Mart. Just like in the pictures.

:

Smell real good, too. Even die on you after a
couple of days. Very convincing. She'd love
'em.
MO
You don't know my girl.
SHADES
Jill doesn’t have any use for fake flowers. Not
when she can have real metal.
Mo nods at the pile of remaining parts.
MO
How much for the other stuff?
Alvy shakes his head, lips twisted in a tight, bitter frown. He
desultorily lifts a couple pieces. Then he notices a severed
steel hand on the bottom of the pile. One Mo missed. Alvy quickly
drops the other pieces over it. Opens his hands to Mo.

ALVY
Ten C's. That's as high as I go.
Mo holds out his hand for it. Alvy quickly counts out several
bills from a greasy roll.
MO
Yep, Alvy. You're as high as you're ever going
to go.
Mo hands the bills to Shades and they head for the door. Alvy
sneers after them.
ALVY
Very funny. Can i help it if my mother picked
up a dose in the big one?
(calling after)
You just wait. All those years out in the zone?
Your kids'll make me look like Narcissus!
EXT. STREET – DAY
The temperature is still rising and heat shimmers in the sealed
tar and concrete valley of the street. Mo and Shades dismount
from a pedi-cab and move through the CROWD, dodging the crawling,
man-powered vehicles. Knots of figures sit clustered like
barnacles in the shade of each supporting pillar of the elevated
roadway, their legs almost under the wheels of the traffic. There
is a low RUMBLE as a truck passes on an overhead expressway.

:

Mo and Shades pass a row of rusting, wheelles cars, smoke rising
from the chimneys in their roofs. Several TEENAGERS are busy
beating up a WINO they’ve got pinned against one of the hoods.
The wino breaks free and comes stumbling across Mo’s path. He
falls to one knee, grasping at Mo’s leg, begging inarticulately
for help. The kids LAUGH.
Mo looks menacingly at them, his hand falling to the butt of his
shotgun. The kids clam up. Mo holds their sullen gaze. He draws
the gun from its holster. The kids finally retreat down an alley.
The wino murmurs his garbled thanks, pawing at Mo's leg.
MO
Hey. You're creasing the pants.
Mo pushes him away with the gun-barrel. The wino tumbles hard. Mo
walks on, deftly slipping the shotgun back into its harness.
Shades hurries to keep with him.
SHADES
Tough guy.
MO
Shut up.
SHADES
That's why you're still in the corps, isn't it?
Mo gives him a look. Fed up.
MO
Why?
SHADES
You tell me.
Mo rolls his eyes.
SHADES
No, really. Tell me why.
MO
(mock breezily)
The money's good. I get around. I see what's
left of the world.
SHADES
I get around, too, and at least I'm still in
one piece.

:

MO
Yeah, until one of your boosters blows up under
you or your heatshield rips off on the way
home.
SHADES
Don't knock it. At least it’s quick. One pssht
and you're gas spread out over a thousand miles
of stratosphere. Think of the view. No coughing
your lungs out in a bunker or sitting around
waiting for the first cancer cells to show up
or your kids to be born blind and blue because
you've had one dose too many and come up snake
eyes in the genetic crap game you play every
time you go zone tripping. DO you think Jill
wants you to go on strolling around out there
up to your ass in radioactive iodine for the
rest of your life?
MO
Think she'd like it better if I was on welfare?
Wound up like these bums? Nothing else I can
do. Not now. Anyway, I don't want kids. Can't
stand the little motherfuckers.
INT. APARTMENT BLOCK FOYER - DAY
Mo steps through the twisted remains of a security gate into the
graffiti-scarred foyer.
MO
What the fuck happened here?
SHADES
Some hophead drove a land cruiser through it.
Put Tommy in the hospital. Did you know him?
MO
When did this happen?
SHADES
Two, three months ago.
(beat)
Right after - you left.
Mo pauses at a batteted computer terminal and types in an access
code before turning to face the steel doors of the lift. The
doors are slightly buckled as if someone has tried to open them
with a crowbar. A grating metallic WHINE comes inside the
elevator shaft. Mo waits for a while, listening as the whine

:

drops to a lower pitch and then cuts out entirely. He rattles the
door in frustration.
CHIEF
Another scorcher today. Nearly ninety, they
said on the news.
MO
And they take the temperature on the roof. Down
in the streets it's a damn sight hotter.
CHIEF
That it is. Hey, while you're here I want you
to meet someone. Got a new kid on the job.
Vernon, say hello to Mister Baxter!
(to Mo)
You heard about Tommy...?
Shades nods. Up above, Vernon sticks his head through the
railings and grins down at them. He's working on a wad of gum.
VERNON
Yo!
Mo raises his hand to say hello, but Vernon has ducked back out
of sight.
CHIEF
Kid's got shit for brains, but he'll work out
once he knows the ropes. It ain't brain
surgery!
Mo nods down to the lower floors.
MO
Looks like this is the last line of defense.
CHIEF
Damn right. This is as far as they get. We've
got new surveillance gear all over the block.
If you want to maybe pop down later for a game
I'll show you 'how it works.
MO
Maybe I'll do that.
CHIEF
I'd appreciate it. Haven't had a good game in weeks.
Vernon's got no head for chess. You can imagine.
Mo and Shades press on up the staircase. Shades wants to put a
question to Mo. Finally gets up the nerve:

:

SHADES
She know you're back?
MO
(shaking his head)
I didn't want to wake her.
SHADES
You didn't mind waking me!
MO
You I don't care about.
Shades shakes his head.
SHADES
You shoulda called. Think she'll let you stay?
MO
(blustery)
Course she will. She sleeps better when I'm
around. Makes her feel more secure.
SHADES
Ha! That's a laugh! She couldn't be more secure
than she is now. She's sealed in tight. She
doesn't need you or me.
MO
Is that right?
SHADES
She doesn't stick her little toe out of there
if she doesn't have to.
MO
How do you know?
Shades shrugs uneasily.
SHADES
I keep an eye on her.
Mo stops, turns back. Eyes him narrowly. Shades shrugs again,
a little embarrassed. Mo finally smiles.
MO
Good. Keep it up.
(nodding)
When I'm not around. See nothing happens to
her, okay? Promise me that?

:

Mo is surprisingly serious. Shades nods.
SHADES
Sure. I'll do what I can. Sure.
(then)
You going somewhere?
Mo turns and climbs to the top of the stairs. He stands outside
the steel door of an apartment. He reaches for the buzzer.
INT. APARTMENT
BUZZZZZZZZ. CAMERA PULLING AWAY FROM the other side of the door.
DOWN the hallway to the console in the lounge. Sulphourous light
from the oxy-acetylene torch flashes on the walls and console.
The door again: BUZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ.
JILL (O.S.)
Goddamn it!!
The torch light cuts out.
Jill steps to the console, pulling off the welding mask, tossing
it aside. She rapidly types digits into the computer.
The screen blinks to life and Mo's face stares back at her
through the electronic blizzard. For a moment she is silent, her
features unreadable. Mo smiles and she finds herself smiling,
too, almost against her will.
JILL
Mo.
His voice comes over the intercom, thick with static.
MO
You gonna let me in, or what?
EXT. STAIRWELL
Mo waits for the door to open. He shifts from foot to foot.
MO
Jill? You there?
Shades nods seriously at him. She's there. Mo clears his throat.
Looks at the keypad next to the door. Types a set of numbers.
Nothing happens.
JILL
(over intercom)
I changed the code.

:

Mo exhales impatiently.
MO
Jill. Let me in.

SHADES
(whispering)
I'll make up the couch.
INT. APARTMENT
Jill stands there, eyes downcast. Torn. Finally shaking her head
in self-reproach and tapping a key. She heads toward the hall.
There is a HISS as the apartment's hydraulics go into action and
the front door slides open on steel runners to reveal Mo and
Shades standing on the threshold. Jill takes a geiger counter
hanging from its peg in the hall and runs it over them.
JILL
Hmm. Cessium level's low today.
MO
I've had warmer hello's.
JILL
Hello, Mo.
He gives her a smile.
MO
Hey there, Jill.
They’re a bit awkward. Nobody makes the first move. Jill nods at
Shades.
JILL
Hi.
SHADES
How’s it going?
JILL
Not bad. I–Mo takes the opportunity to move past her down the hall. Jill
hesitates for a second. Then:
JILL

:

-- I got a commision customizinq consoles for
some uptowners. Welfare checks are coming in
regular, I can't complain.
Mo stands on the edge of the living room. He smiles lightly at
the chaos and puts down his gear. Jill and Shades come in behind
him.

JILL
See my new pet? I've been using it as a model.
This morning I woke up and -- look -- it made a
web.
Mo bends beside a glass tank. His eyes focus on the spider and he
nods his head.
SHADES
What do you feed it?
JILL
I've been giving it little bits of soy mince, but
sometimes I catch a bug. It sucks 'em dry.
Mo frowns a little, then reaches down into his gunny sack.
MO
I've got something else you'll like.
He starts to open the sack but then he sees that Jill isn’t
watching him.
JILL
(to Shades)
I've been basing my work more on organic
forms... translating them into the
synthetic...focusing more on the synthesis...
Shades nods. Mo stands up suddenly.
MO
(to Shades)
Listen, you wanna stay for a beer, or
something?
SHADES
No, that's okay, thanks. I want to talk to the
super about the air conditioning before we all
fry.
JILL

:

They say there's a cold front on the way. It
might cool things down in time for Christmas.
SHADES
Yeah. There's hope yet.
MO
Can you guys hold off on the weather report for
a minute?
They look at him, slightly surprised. He opens his bag, emptying
it onto the floor with a CLATTER. The steel skull grins up at
them, upside down amidst a tangle of components.
MO
See anything you like?
Jill kneels amidst the scrap, her face lighting up.
JILL
Oh! Jesus God! He's beautiful!
(lifting the skull)
I love it! What a monster.
She plants a kiss on its forehead.
MO
(shrugging)
Maintenance drone, if you can believe Alvy.
He glances at Shades, who shrugs back. Jill sets down the skull
and lifts a severed mechanical arm, running her fingers over the
metalwork. Then she looks up at Mo and her face lights up with a
smile. Mo gives it back.
MO
Merry Christmas, baby.
She stands and hugs him, still holding the android's arm in one
hand.
Shades gives a little wave and backs toward the door.
SHADES
I’m gonna head out. You guys...
They're still locked in embrace.
JILL
Bye.

:

MO
Later, Shades.
Shades gives a little ironic salute, taps a number on the keypad
next to the door. The door SHUNTS open. He ducks out. The door
HISSES shut.
Jill and Mo kiss. Deeply. Holding each other tight.

The steel skull lies where Jill left it, still smiling, the
embracing lovers inverted, reflected in the depth of its glass
eyes.
INT. SHOWER - NIGHT
Hot water HISSES from the overhead faucet and Mo stands in the
frosted glass cubicle, eyes closed, steam rising around him as he
lets the shower wash away three months of sweat and engine oil.
He reaches out, pulling Jill closer. Her hands reach around him,
gently massaging her back, feeling a web of waxy scar tissue
beneath her fingertips.
A living mosaic of tattoos writhes beneath her touch, a jungle
tangle of howling wolves, wilting roses, phallic warheads and
naked bodies. Their lips meet and he caresses her and even though
he cannot feel the caress through his synthetic hand he feels her
shiver anyway. She clasps his wrist, raising the prosthetic limb
to her lips, kissing the steep fingertips.
INT. APARTMENT - NIGHT
Later they lie in the circular bed in the room that serves as
both bedroom and lounge, facing out towards the Venetian blinds
whose open slats reveal a panoramic vista of rooftops and glowing
windows. The television set is on, tuned to some program about
the famine, the volume turned down, the news camera tracking
silently across rows of emaciated bodies stacked like firewood,
the images spilling their cold blue light across the naked
lovers. The only sound in the apartment now is the rasping of
their breath, the low hum of the air conditioning and the distant
throb of the city, pulsing like blood rushing in their ears,
muted by the soundproof walls.
Jill cries out, voice shrill as a bird call, head thrown back,
Mo's hands clutching at her shoulders, his eyes closed, straining
toward transcendence. Her cries become thicker, distorted,
becoming an electronic synthesis of sound as a red glow grows
around them and their image loses resolution, their bodies
becoming solarized, becoming a grainy pornographic photograph
taken on heat sensitive film stock.

:

INT. APARTMENT IN ADJACENT TOWER BLOCK – NIGHT
LINCOLN WEINBERG, JR., a short, stocky man with close-cropped
hair wearing a gaudy Hawaiian shirt, presses the remote lead-on
his camera, keeping one eye pressed to the viewfinder. The
shutter opens with a CLICK, exposing another frame, and then the
auto-wind mechanism WHIRS into action.
A trickle of sweat runs down his forehead.
LINCOLN
Yeah, take it! Take that big dick! Take it all,
bitch!
He re-adjusts the infrared lens of his camera to maximum
telephoto, panning slightly to keep Jill in the center of the
frame, peering through the parallel bars of the blinds, studying
the cascade of her hair, the curve of her breasts...
His hand eases itself into his lap, his finger jerking on the
remote trigger, almost a reflex action now. He sees Mo's hands
claw at her back, hard enough to bruise, and he groans. Jill
shudders, her spine arching, and Lincoln shudders with her.
He blinks, trying to keep her moonlit image in focus.
LINCOLN
God... I love you...
DISSOLVE TO:
INT. JILL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
Jill lies on her back amidst the stained sheets, smoking a joint,
letting Mo trace the outline of her body with his good hand. She
smiles dreamily, her eyes half-closed.
JILL
It's good to have you here, Moses.
MO
It's good to be here.
Then he sighs quietly, drawing his hand away, lying back. He
stares at the ceiling.
JILL
What is it?
MO
What are we gonna do?
JILL

:

About what?
She’s a bit wary, now. Cool.
MO
About us.
(pause)
Do you ever think about that?

JILL
(deadpan)
I like it when we're together. I haven't
thought much beyond that. You're not somebody I
can rely on.
(suddenly)
How long are you going to stay this time?
He's silent for a long while. She waits. Finally, with
difficulty:
MO
I'm AWOL. I have to be back by next Thursday or
I'll be counted out.
She sits up. Angry.
JILL
Let them count you out! You don't owe them
anything!
She glances at his robot hand. He curls it up, moves it away.
MO
No. They owe me six months of back pay. I won't
get it unless I stick it out until my contract
is up.
Jill is frustrated. Draws up her knees. Rests her temple against
them, turned away from him. Quietly:
JILL
Which is when?
He’s evasive. Shrugs.
MO
Few months.
She slowly stretches out again. Lying with her back to him. Is
trying to say something.

:

MO
(softly)
The thing is I...Jill?
(pause)
I really love you.
Long pause. Her expression doesn't change.
JILL
So?
He closes his eyes. Sleepy. Dreamy. He shrugs languidly.
MO
Maybe...we...
He trails off. She lies there, watching the neon flicker of light
play in the Venetian blinds and listening to the throb and whir
of the city. Then she hears distant music come drifting up from
the depth of the glass canyon outside the window pane, faint,
almost lost beneath the roar of the traffic. A choir singing. A
Christmas carol.
Silent Night. Holy Night.
Jill turns to Mo and touches his arm.
JILL
Mo.
But it is already too late. He is fast asleep. She sighs, curling
up beside him, listening to the distant carol as she too drifts
slowly into sleep.
All is calm.
All is bright.
DISSOLVE THROUGH:
NOWHERE
A shifting veil of fire.
Wind borne sparks.
A great wind blowing.
Sand lifting from the dunes in crimson sheets, twisting in the
air, taking on the semblance of life.
INT. APARTMENT - NIGHT
Jill moans softly in her sleep, face damp with sweat. Moonlight
filters through the blinds and it is as if the lovers sleep in
the midst of a forest of metal trees, the glistening branches and
reaching arms of Jill's scrap sculptures silhouetted against the
silver glow.

:

Glass eyes glint in the night and grotesque, tortured faces peer
from the gloom. Ventilation tubing coils through the trees like
snakes and a steel owl perches above the doorway its wingspan
lined with metallic feathers.
Moonlight silvers the spider web and for a moment its strands
seem to fill the room. Somewhere, far back in the shadows,
something moves. Static flickers with a sputter across the
television screen. A spark flies between synapses deep inside a
damaged silicon brain and a crimson gleam flickers momentarily
through the eyes of the steel skull.
There is a HUM of energy and its memory banks light up. The TV
screen dims for a second and the android's infrared retinas widen
as its disembodied head silently watches over the apartment,
focusing on the two glowing heatforms that lie curled beside each
other on the bed.
Jill moans again, turning in her sleep.
DISSOLVE TO:
EXT. THE WASTELAND - DAY
In her dream she's running across the dunes, almost blind,
buffeted by the stinging sand, her hair whipping around her.
Something dark emerges from the dust up ahead and slowly she
approaches it. The curtain of sand parts, revealing a steel hand
reaching from the earth.
She falls to her knees and without understanding why begins
desperately to dig, the wind helping her uncover something long
buried within the dune.
A face appears, starinq up at her.
Mo's face, terribly burned, screaming mouth and eyeless sockets
filled with sand.
She SCREAMS, starting to her feet and when she tries to run Mo's
metal hand grabs her by the ankle and holds her fast.
INT. APARTMENT - NIGHT
Jill wakes with a start, sitting up in the darkened room, Mo is
still sleeping at her side and she lets out a little sigh of
relief when she sees him, reaching out to touch him, letting his
warmth reassure her. She sits for a while in silence and then,
making a decision, she swings herself out of bed, slips on a
crumpled silk kimono and heads for the kitchen.
INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

:

Jill absent-mindedly types a command into a wall console and the
automatic coffee maker percolator lights up, chugging and
whirring contentedly to itself. She opens the freezer to remove a
carton of synti-milk, catching a glimpse of her face floating in
the dark glaze of the tiling, illuminated momentarily by the dim
light of the refrigerator door. The face seems disembodied,
almost unrecognizable.
INT. LOUNGE - NIGHT
Jill picks her way through the debris, cradling a steaming mug of
coffee. She sits down in the middle of the room and crosses her
legs, still feeling strangely disoriented. She taps another joint
from an already half-empty pack of 'Acapulco Gold' and reaches
out to flick the television's remote control, turning up the
volume on a late-night news bulletin. The NEWSCASTER smiles
reassuringly at her, his voice silky and emotionless, his hair
and complexion flawless, probably computer generated.
NEWSCASTER
The Department of Agriculture announced today
that further rationing under the new austerity
guidelines is likely in the wake of the soya
crop blight and the resulting forty percent
shortfall in the harvest. The government has
announced plans to set up a special task force
to deal specifically with this problem and the
recent reports of widespread defiency-releated
diseases in the inner city.
Jill takes another drag on the joint, turning her attention to an
unfinished sculpture. A collage of mutilated dolls, welded by a
blowtorch into a single circular unit, interlaced with barbed
wtre and rusty surgical implements.
NEWSCASTER
Meanwhile, public resistance to the emergency
population control bill continues to grow. The
bill would mandate -Jill flips the remote button, channel and turning to a hardcore
pornography then to some music station where a nameless heavy
metal band is batting its way through its latest number, by an
undulating sea of dancers, surrounded upwards, hands reaching
desperately outlined by a blue neon grid of laser beams.
Jill smiles, more at home now. She scrambles over to the pile of
scrap and begins to shift through the android's remains. The
torso is still largely intact, almost humanoid above the waist
but degenerating below the hips into a truncated tangle of melted
cables and hydraulic tubing.

:

Jill’s fingers lightly trace the course of a shrapnel wound and
she leans forward to try to make out a battered serial number and
what seems to be some kind of military insignia engraved on its
breastplate. A stylized moon and a thunderbolt. She counts four
arms, three of them ending in slender hands with long, delicately
jointed fingers while a fourth terminates in a rugged stump. She
paws through the scrap, frowning, but the missing hand is nowhere
to be found.
Two crumpled subsidiary arms project like insulated caterpiller
legs from the android's stomach, one tapering into a jagged drill
bit and the other ending in a pair of rotating pincers.
Jill smiles to herself, glancing up at the unfinished doll
sculpture. Then she hauls on a pair of paint-spattered
electrician's gloves and begins to work.
Mo stris, gradually coming awake to the sound of heavv metal, the
bass turned too high, and the WHINE of a power saw in-operation
somewhere in the gloom behind him. He sits up, turning to see
Jill crouched over the android's remains, still dressed in her
kimono but wearing welding goggles now and wielding a circular
saw.
He can’t quite make out what she's doing but he can see sparks
the darkness, the clenched line of her jaw and the hurting whites
of her eyes behind the goggles. Rapt, almost mesmeric in their
concentration.
He rubs his eyes and yawns, glancing at his watch. He pulls on
his trousers and shambles over to the window, lighting a
cigarette. Behind him the power saw cuts off for a moment as Jill
changes to her airbrush, setting to work on the android's head.
He smiles, neon washing over his face. Jill stands, raising the
android's severed head and placing it in the midst of the doll
fresco so that it forms a new centerpiece and Mo sees that she
has painted one side of the steel skull with light blue clouds
and the other with a dark, star-studded sky. He laughs and Jill
turns to him.
MO
I like it.
He takes a step toward her. Unsure of himself.
MO
The dolls are a nice touch. Make a nice wreath.
Her mouth tightens. He tries again, kiddingly.

:

MO
Where does this stuff come from? You seem so
normal on the surface.
She decides to take him seriously.
JILL
You know that new emergency bill they're
pushing through?
MO
The birth control thing?
Jill nods at the ring of dolls.
JILL
I started on this when I first heard about it.
Mo gazes at the sculpture for a long time. Then he starts to turn
around.
MO
I don't get it.
He picks up his shotgun. Shoulders it. Aiming out the window.
Jill is glaring at his back.
JILL
Why do I let you in? Every time? Why?
He turns suddenly to her.
MO
You wanna know why?
JILL
Yes, I do!
MO
I'll show you why.
(pointing)
Sit in that chair.
She rolls her eyes.
JILL
Mo, I‘m trying to work.
MO
You wanted to know. Now go sit in the chair.

:

JILL
No. It's stupid.
MO
Just go sit in the fucking chair, okay?
JILL
Okay, okay. Jesus. If it makes you happy.
She sits in the chair.
JILL
Okay, now what?
MO
Now tip yourself back...slowly... so the front
legs lift off the floor. Like you're riding it.
JILL
This is really stupid.
MO
Go on. Do it for me.
JILL
Yeah, yeah.
She tips the chair back keeping her balance with one foot.
JILL
Okay. Now what.
MO
Let it go all the way. Let yourself fall.
You'll be all right.
She starts to tip the chair backwards. For a moment she teeters
on the verge of overbalancing and then, laughing, she drops
forward into an upright position. Shaking her head.
JILL
No.
MO
Trust me, Jill.
JILL
No. I can't do it. No way.
Mo steps suddenly forward and pushes her hard in the chest. She
topples backwards with a SHRIEK and hits the floor with a

:

resounding THUD.
She lies on her back for a moment, looking up at Mo standing over
her, the shotgun still in his hands.
Then she begins to laugh.
MO
Fun, huh?
Mo kneels next to her, grinning.
MO
You can't hurt yourself. Not if you fall right.
Didn't I tell you?
She puts one arm around him, drawing him to her and they kiss.
MO
They tell you not to look down when you climb a
cliff, but why not? The view is beautiful.
JILL
(still smiling)
You're so full of it...
From the flat below comes the sound of muffled THUMPING as the
downstairs neighbors bang on their ceiling with a broom handle.
JILL
Oh, God... the neighbors...
Mo BANGS on the floor with his steel hand.
MO
Fuck them!
He drops the shotgun and grabs Jill, dragging her across the
floor towards the bed. He lifts her in his arms, dumping her on
the mattress and scrambling on top of her, pinning her down with
his knees. For a moment they are quiet, looking at each other. He
reaches out, brushing a strand from her face with his prostethic
hand.
JILL
Moses...
The phone RINGS. A BURBLING electronic sound, tangling in Jill's
hair. Mo's hand twitches spastically. She recoils with a yelp.
MO
Shit!

:

Jill starts to laugh, untangling her hair. The phone continues to
RING. Mo stands.
MO
It's not funny. Damn thing keeps getting radio
and TV signals confused with my nerve impulses.
He crosses toward the main computer console. Looking
contemplatively at the metal hind.
MO
I'm going to have to get it changed. Circuits
are messed up anyway. Sometimes I even feel
pain in it, like my hand's still there...
The expression in Mo's face makes her stop laughing. He shrugs it
off and reaches for the phone. She reaches out her hand -–
JILL
Don't answer it.
Too late. He's picked up the vid-phone handset.
MO
(into the phone)
Yeah?
A familiar face flickers across the vid-screen, peering out
through the rolling electronic bars.
MO
Alvy?
Alvy is furtive, nervous.
ALVY
I gotta see you. Sorry to call so late,
but...it's important.
MO
Jesus, Alvy. Talk to me in the morning.
ALVY
No. It has to be now. I'm talking big bucks,
savvy. Meet me at the yard in an hour. And
bring the, uh... skull and bones.
MO
The what?
(realizing)

:

No way. I’m not selling it. That's final.
ALVY
Just hear me out. I can't talk over the phone.
Too many ears. See you in an hour.
MO
Forget it.
The dwarf's face disappears in a swirl of electronic snow. Mo
hangs up. Stands there. Intrigued. He stares at the blank screen.
Jill is watching him. Waiting for his next move. He finally looks
at her. Gives her a big, warm smile. Crosses toward her, shaking
his head in exasperation.
He climbs onto her. Tipping her onto her back. Giving her kiss.
He looks her in the eye and shakes his head again.
MO
Everything's a big emergency with Alvy.
They kiss again.
Across the room, red embers glow deep in the eyes of the painted
metal skull.
INT. ROBOT BREAKER'S WAREHOUSE – NIGHT
Alvy sits crouched beside work bench, an island of flourescent
light adrift in the darkened warehouse. He is bent over the
bench, raising a jeweler's lens to examine the severed mechanical
hand that lies before him. He takes note of an engraved serial
number, then pushes the hand to the side, rummaging through a
sheath of blueprints printed on a dog-eared read-out paper until
he finds one that clearly matches the hand’s design.
He leans closer, examining an intricate schematic diagram
charting the hand's wiring. Red lettering is stencilled across
one corner of the blueprint: "MARK 13 PROTOTYPE -AUTHORIZED
ACCESS ONLY."
Something in the schematic seems to excite him and he lifts a
gold pocket watch by its chain to check the time.
INT. JILL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
The room is still and dark. Neon glow blinks in a slat-pattern on
the ceiling. The mute TV flickers and flashes.
Jill is peacefully asleep.

:

Mo is moving stealthily about the apartment, dressing. He sits
carefully on the edge of the bed to lace up his boots. Jill sighs
in her sleep. Stirs.
Mo waits till she settles back and gives her a soft kiss on the
cheek. A small contented smile rises out of her dreams and breaks
on her lips.
MO
(whispering)
I'll be back.
He stands and heads for the door.
EXT. STAIRWELL – NIGHT
The apartment's door HISSES open and Mo stands alone on the
threshold, wrapped in a shapeless military coat, his hands in his
pockets, He hesitates uneasily for a moment before stepping into
the waiting darkness and making for the elevator. He hears a
stealthy sound behind him and pauses, nervously typing a command
into the lift's control console, one hand touching the butt of
his shotgun.
Several ragqed shapes detach themselves from the night, drifting
slowly toward him. CHILDREN, three of them not even in their
teens, ringworm already in their hair, their grubby faces thin,
and spotted with sores, their eyes glistening hungrily in the
half-light.
For a moment he's not sure how to react, then he sets his jaw and
waves at them in a threatening manner.
MO
How did you get up here? Go on! Get the fuck
out of here!
The children stand their ground, not daring to come closer
and at the same time unwilling to give up. The lift door swishes
open and Mo steps quickly into the narrow, grafitti-scarred
cubicle.
INT. LIFT
The lift door doses and the children are gone from sight and the
car is dropping toward the street. Mo breathes a sigh of relief,
drawing the coat more tightly around himself. He mutters.
MO
Goddamn Chief.

:

He looks at his face in the door's cracked and cloudy mirror.
His eyes seem lost and worried, strangely disoriented. He
shivers, trying to pull himself together.
EXT. STREET - NIGHT
The lift door swishes open and Mo walks hastily through the
lobby, stepping over the sleeping DRIFTERS as he makes for the
street. Outside the rush of traffic and the stench of the gutters
enfold him, the feeling of anonymity affording him it lends him
some little comfort.
He steps into the street, hailing a pedi-cab, not looking back.
The cab stops. He trots after it.
HIGH ANGLE - LOOKING DOWN ON MO
A motorized shutter CLICKS three times, freezing his image on
heat-sensitive 35mm, the auto-wind WHIRRING.
INT. APARTMENT IN ADJACENT TOWER BLOCK - NIGHT
Lincoln is crouched by the window, following Mo through the lens
of his camera.
LINCOLN
That's it, loverboy. Just keep on walking.
He pans his camera up once more to focus on the window of Jill's
apartment.
INT. JILL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
Jill rolls over, the sheets tangling around her. Muttering in her
sleep.
Somewhere far back in the cluttered apartment something moves and
comes to life.
The red light glimmers in the eyes of the android's severed head.
With an almost imperceptible electronic whir, its microchip mind
wakes up, watching over the apartment from its perch in the midst
of a nest of barbed wire and burned dolls.
The android's irises widen, like black holes slowly expanding.
INT. ROBOT BREAKER'S WAREHOUSE - NIGHT
The android's severed hand shivers, fingers shifting minutely,
delicately touching the table-top as if trying to orient itself.
Alvy is oblivious to the hand movement, too busy studying the
minutely detailed blueprints spread out before him to notice
anything else.
INT. JILL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

:

A bank of LED's light up on the main computer console. A low
whine of feedback crackles from the intercom and static hazes the
television screen. Jill groans, turning irritably on the bed.
Down on the floor, the android's dismembered limbs shiver as life
returns to them, jointed fingers tapping on the floor, artificial
muscles flexing slowly, hydraulic tubing twisting, fluid flowing
back into damaged veins.
A dark pool of grease spreads like blood across the carpet.
INT. ROBOT BREAKER'S WAREHOUSE - NIGHT
Alvy detects a furtive movement out of the corner of his eye and
looks up from his work.
The severed hand has vanished.
The dwarf starts to his feet, checking the floor, seeing nothing
but bare concrete.
He lifts the blueprints, searching the tabletop, suddenly
bewildered.
Behind him the hand scuttles deftly along a rack of spare
freezing for Alvy looks around a moment in the shadow of an oil
can as then scampering up to perch like a spider on the head of a
deactivated servo-robot.
Alvy is already beginning to suspect the truth when he hears
the soft metallic tapping coming from the shelf behind him.
Slowly he turns, half guessing what he is about to see, his heart
beating faster anyway. Then he sees the hand, one finger tapping
impatiently against the servo-robot's cranium.
The hand seems to know he's watching and freezes once more.
ALVY
(under his breath)
I'll be goddamned...
He takes a step closer, pulling on a pair of heavy rubber gloves.
The hand remains motionless.
The dwarf reaches slowly out, biting his lower lip nervously.
Then his fingers touch it and in an instant the hand is
scuttling up his arm, faster than he can move, feeling its way
toward his face. He recoils, trying to brush it off, but it is
already at his throat and he can feel its steel fingers
trying to get a grip on his windpipe.
He grabs at the stump of the wrist, frantically trying to tug the
hand away. He stumbles back, catching a chair behind his knees
and losing his balance. He cries out, as he goes down, scrabbling
at the tabletop as he goes down, but succeeds only in pulling the

:

blueprints down on top of him. He hits the floor hard and the
hand is already grasping at his face, feeling for his eyes.
INT. JILL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
The light blazes, bright as hot coals now in the android's eyes.
A coat rack falls with a CLATTER to the floor and Jill stirs,
hovering between sleep and waking. The floor of the room is
alive, now, hands twitching and hopping, wiring sparking in the
gloom.

INT. ROBOT BREAKER'S WAREHOUSE – NIGHT
The sliding doors RATTLE as Mo pushes them open on their runners
and steps into the darkened warehouse. Their is a flourescent
light burning at the far end of the room behind a rack of
accessories and Mo can hear the sounds of a violent scuffle
interspersed with YELPS of pain.
MO
Alvy?
ALVY (O.S.)
(thick and muffled)
AH, FUCK! HELP ME! MOSES!!
Mo runs down the main aisle of the warehouse to find Alvy
thrashing on the floor amidst the crumpled blueprints, clutching
at his throat, his legs kicking.
MO
What the fuck?
ALVY
GET IT OFF! AAAAGH! GET IT OFF ME YOU
SHITHEAD!!
Mo crouches quickly, pinning the screaming dwarf to the floor
with
his knees and pulling at the hand. At first it resists, then, in
a moment of confusion, it releases Alvy and tries to grab at Mo
but he already has it by the wrist and its fingers are too short
to reach him.
He stands slowly, staring at the hand in disbelief, its fingers
clawing helplessly at the air.
Alvy sits up, rubbing his throat. Dark purple bruises mark his
flesh, bloodstains dappling his shirt, dripping from a row of

:

almost surgical incisions in his face and neck. Alvy mops at the
blood with his handkerchief, his hand trembling.
ALVY
Oh, God...I'm...bleeding...!
MO
You're all right. Where did you get this?
ALVY
It...it was in that pile of junk you sold me. I
didn't...I didn't notice it till after you
left. It's part of the...Mark 13.
MO
The what?
Alvy peers about Mo's body, frowning.
ALVY
Mark 13. You didn't bring the rest of it?!
MO
Wait a minute. The android? What do you know
about it? What is it?
Alvy stands and points at him.
ALVY
It's a more sophisticated version of you.
MO
I thought it was a maintenance drone!
ALVY
Uh...well, no. So did I. But then I got my
hands on these blueprints. See?
Alvy hops eagerly onto the bench seat, pawing through the
blueprint pages. Mo steps close to the bench, peering over Alvy's
shoulder. Alvy keeps one eye on the hand in Mo's grip.
ALVY
This is the guy who is gonna make you obsolete.
You'll be the maintenance drone.
(pointing at the hand)
He's got three more of those where that came
from, as well as four subsidiary arms. More
legs than a fucking spider. It's designed to
operate in the field, out of radio contact,
working on its own initiative, even making its

:

own repairs. It's the closest thing to real
artificial intelligence money can buy and it's
got just one primary function.
INT JILL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
Jill lies curled on the bed, her eves twitching beneath their
lids, deep in a dream. Behind her the movement has become more
organized. Steel fingers tighten bolts and seal damaged tubing,
rebuilding its body piece by piece, dismembered limbs acting
under the silent command of the severed head.
Slowly, almost painfully, the creature swings its torso upright,
using its lower arms like legs, stretching itself as if awakening
from a deep sleep.
Slowly Mark 13 returns to life.
INT. ROBOT BREAKER'S WAREHOUSE: - NIGHT
Alvy turns proudly from the blueprints to Mo.
ALVY
It can lie dormant for decades and recharge
itself anytime from any power grid even from
the sun, if necessary. It can see in the dark
and move faster and quieter than the most
highly trained combat soldier. It's got mindbending drugs inside it worse than cyanide. It
can kill you in seconds and even make you enjoy
it.
Mo is staring at a blinking LED on the back of the hand.
MO
What's with this light? Is it malfunctioning?
He sounds almost hopeful.
ALVY
Oh, no. It's functioning fine. That's a warning
that it's electrified. You're lucky the storage
battery is kept in the chest cavity. Otherwise
-- ZZZZT! The little bastard would've put more
current through you than an electric chair.
MO
Where's the phone?! I've gotta call Jill!
ALVY
(reproachfully)

:

I told you to bring it with you.
MO
Just point me to the phone, Alvy!
ALVY
Now, slow down! Can't we do some business
first? That's what you came here for.
Mo steps menacingly toward him.
MO
The phone, goddamnit!!
ALVY
250 C's! Cash!
Mo thrusts the wriggling hand at him. Alvy recoils, the blood
draining from his face, the hand straining to reach him.
MO
Here! I'll give you this one for free! Around
the neck! Now where's the fucking phone?!!
ALVY
(pointing across room)
Over there! Over there! Jeesh. You'll need change.
Mo carefully holds the hand out to Alvy. Wrist first. Alvy shakes
his head.
MO
Take it!
Alvy takes it, blanching. Mo heads for the phone, digging into
his pockets. Alvy holds the flexing hand at arm's length. Has to
marvel at it. Raises his voice for Mo.
ALVY
Apparently they were testing a bunch of them
out on the dune sea, but there was a fuck up.
Seems there was one structural defect. An
Achilles heel in the insulation system...
Mo hurries up to the vid-phone console, pulling change from his
pocket, coins bouncing off the concrete floor. He feeds change
into the slot, frantically types a number.
INT. JILL'S APARTMENT
The vid-phone lights up the screen, an incoming call signal
flashing across but almost as soon as it begins to RING the

:

receiver is lifted from its hook. Mo’s face flickers across the
screen, his eyes wide and nervous.
INT. ROBOT BREAKER'S WAREHOUSE
Mo stands clutching the receiver, staring into the fuzzy video
monitor. He bangs the side of the console, trying to get a
picture.
MO
Hello! Hello, Jill?!
A soft, electric whir comes over the receiver, almost like the
purr of a cat.
The screen flickers and for an instant Mo glimpses something. A
dark shape staring back at him, eyes like hot coals. Then the
line goes dead and the image disintegrates in a HISS of WHITE
NOISE.
The call charge flickers on screen.
A stream of coins cascades from the slot, rattling across his
boots.
INT. JILL'S APARTMENT
A wisp of blue smoke rises from the vid-phone receiver and the
steel hand that holds it tightens its grasp. There is a sound
like frying bacon and the receiver slowly begins to melt.
INT. ROBOT BREAKER'S WAREHOUSE
Mo leans on the console, groaning to himself, hands massaging his
forehead.
MO
Jesus... Oh, Jesus... Jill.
Then a thought occurs to him and he quickly types another number
into the vid-phone, feeding it more change. The phone rings for a
while and Mo shuffles his feet uneasily.
MO
Come on...come on...!
The screen flickers and a familiar face appears, the sound of
distant sitar music coming over the receiver.
SHADES
Ayuh...

:

He grins at Mo, seemingly naked save for his dark glasses.
MO
Shades! I need your help!
SHADES
Hey, uh...wow, um...it's cool, but...right now
it's, uh, kinda difficult... Do you know what
time it is?
MO
Listen to me! This is serious! Jill's in danger
and you've gotta help her!
SHADES
(looking around uneasily)
Oh, Jeez. Oh...Christ. It had to be tonight.
He laughs nervously.
MO
What's wrong?
SHADES
My heart feels like an alligator.
MO
What?! Shades. What's wrong with you?!
SHADES
You know that tab of acid I was saving...?
MO
Oh no...
SHADES
Yeah. I dropped it. Like...Christmas can get
pretty crazy on your own, y'know? I've just
been sitting here staring at the stars all
night. The sky's so beautiful...
INT. SHADES' APARTMENT
Shades sits cross-legged in front of the console wearing only a
pair of boxing shorts, the vid-phone receiver cradled in one
hand, candles burning everywhere. Books on eastern philosophy and
mysticism are spread on the floor around him, their pages open to
intricate mazes and mandalas.
The lights in the room are turned down and outside the picture
window the stars really are beautiful.

:

Shades hears a soft thud and looks up from the console,
momentarily distracted.
There is a moth outside, beating against the glass, its wings
silver in the moonlight.
Shades smiles and, getting to his feet, takes a step toward the
window, entranced by the waiting stars.
He reaches out to touch the glass, Mo's voice growing faint and
far away but still insistent.

MO
Hey! Hey! Listen to me! Come back! You've got
to do this for me! You've got to go down to the
apartment and get Jill out of there right
now...Shades?!
Shades turns back to the screen. Blinks. Finally nods,
SHADES
Yeah, yeah. Okay.
MO
(with steady force)
Go get Jill. Bring her to your place and lock
the door. Got that?
SHADES
What's going on? You in trouble with the cops
again or -MO
I'll tell you later! Just do it! Now!
SHADES
Okay, okay. Just let me get my pants on.
Shades is trying to climb into his pants. He almost falls over.
MO
(softly)
Hurry, Shades. I'm counting on you.
SHADES
No sweat. I'll be seeing you later, huh?
MO
Yeah, just watch yourself, okay?

:

SHADES
Oh, yeah. Noooooo problem. See ya. Bye.
Shades smiles and hangs up the receiver, standing silent for a
moment, listening to the dull flutter of the moth's wings beating
against the glass.
INT. ROBOT BREAKER'S WAREHOUSE
The vid-screen goes dead and Mo turns toward the door, taking a
deep breath. He draws the shotgun from holster and checks to make
sure it's loaded.
MO
Alvy. Call the police and give them my address.
Then take that thing... that hand... and melt
it down. Turn up the heat until there's nothing
left... and I don't want you to think once
about what it might be worth. It's mine by
rights, anyway.
ALVY
Mo -MO
(cocking the shotgun)
Don't argue. Don't say a thing.
ALVY
All right, I'll do it. Little bastard's no
friend of mine.
MO
(heading for the door)
Thanks, Alvy. Maybe you are human, after all.
ALVY
Nah. I've just got a soft spot for an
endangered species.
Alvy points after him with the truncated hand. Mo reholsters the
shotgun and steps out the warehouse doors. The night swallows him
up.
INT. JILL'S APARTMENT – NIGHT
Mark 13 moves slowly through the lounge, infra-red eyes cutting
through the gloom, purring contentedly to itself as it examines
the main computer terminal and then lollops on toward the bed. It
halts, looking down at Jill, registering her sleeping form as a
glowing puddle of energy.

:

A printout rattles through its brain.
HEATFORM 35 DEGREES CELSIUS HUMAN
RANGE: 0.5 METERS
It reaches almost tenderly toward her and she turns, sighing in
her sleep. Then suddenly it pauses, raising its head as if
listening for something, its irises widening microscopically.
EXT. SCRAPYARD - NIGHT
Alvy walks slowly down an avenue of rusting cars, gingerly
clutching the wriggling hand, steam drifting all around him. He
stops in front of one of the scrapyard's low brick blast furnaces
and stands silent as if in thought. Then with one deft movement
he opens the furnace door and hurls the hand inside, immediately
SLAMMING the door. He spins a metal wheel, sealing the furnace
and turning up the heat. He leans forward, firelight shimmering
on his face, peering through the reinforced glass of the narrow
furnace window, watching the severed hand scamper frantically
around its prison, fingers scratching at the brickwork. Tongues
of fire flicker up through a grate in the floor and the hand goes
crazy, flinging itself at the window.
Alvy steps back, wiping his forehead. The temperature rises and
the hand glows red, its outline softening as it begins to melt.
There's no way out, but still it refuses to give up, hurling
itself again at the walls, still banging frantically at the door,
now just a jittering ball of fire.
INT. JILL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
Jill comes suddenly awake sitting up in bed, knowing that
something is wrong. She looks around to the other side of the
bed for Mo. He's not there. Just flat, crumpled sheets. A sharp
burst of STATIC comes from the television and she looks to it.
Something's wrong with the set.
The sound is distorted, muted as if underwater, and the image has
become vague and shadowy, abstract, tinged with green.
She stares at it, shaking her head in confusion. Behind her
something glistens in the dark, pulling itself up to its full
height, poising like a cobra about to strike.
JILL
...Mo ?
She sees the remote control lying at the foot of the bed and
reaches forward to pick it up and that movement is the only thing
that saves her. A steel claw whistles past her head, so close she
can feel its wind. The mattress shivers beneath her, bulging down

:

under the weight of something only half-glimpsed that's climbing
over the head of the bed impossibly quickly.
She YELLS, diving head first onto the floor, hitting the ground
all wrong, a dreamy puff of feathers going up around her as the
creature rips the mattress apart in a frenzy of tearing fabric
and thrashing claws.

INT. APARTMENT IN ADJACENT TOWER BLOCK
Lincoln shivers, the remote lead jumping in his hand, not
understanding what he sees. Everything across the way is a tangle
of movement. Something big, the size of a large dog, has taken
the girl’s place on the bed and seems to be eating the mattress.
He squints through the lens, trying to figure out what it is, but
it refuses to conform with anything he’s seen before. He thinks
he glimpses a pair of glowing red eyes and a bobbing, almost
human head and shoulders but the arms and legs are all wrong, a
blur of motion, limbs twitching like a big, clockwork spider.
He sits back, shaking his head.
LINCOLN
I’m losing it. I’m fucking losing it.
Unable to resist, he bends to the camera again and recoils almost
immediately, crying out, retaining only an image of eyes like
windows into hell. He can't shake the conviction that whatever it
is was watching him right through the lens, waiting for him to
take a look, and now it's seen him. Now it knows his face.
He sits back, nervously picking at his acne, the beginnings of an
idea taking form in his head.
INT. JILL'S APARTMENT
Jill crouches against the wall, still clutching the remote in her
hand, a blizzard of feathers falling all around her.
The thing seems to be building a nest in the bed, pulling the
sheets tight around itself.
She starts to edge past it, crawling slowly backwards toward the
door, trying not to look too steadily at it, the childish notion
occuring to her that if she can't see it then maybe it can't see
her. A sob starts to rise inside her and she bites her lip to
stay quiet. When she opens her eyes again the creature is gone.

:

Only the gaping claw marks in the mattress and the twisted sheets
remain to show that it even existed. She glances around herself,
shivering, eyes straining into the shadows, seeing nothing but
the feathers lazily drifting down past the blue strobe of the
television screen.
EXT. STREET - NIGHT
Mo is running, breathing hard, his head thrown back, his coat
fluttering around him. A pedi-cab cruises past and he chases
after it, raising his hand.
MO
Hey! Taxi! TAXI! STOP!
The pedi-cab speeds up and off, Mo giving up, slowing to catch
his breath. Then he forces himself on again, moaning softly to
himself, his feet keeping time with the beat of the blood in his
temples.
INT. JILL'S APARTMENT – NIGHT
Jill gets slowly to her feet, every muscle in her body tensed,
eyes darting from side to side as she backs toward the door. Her
foot strikes something and she recoils. She looks down and
breaths a sigh of relief, seeing her blow-torch lying on the
floor where she left it.
She kneels and tentatively lifting it pulls on the trigger,
igniting a thin blue tongue of gas.
She backs toward the doorway, holding the blow-torch at arm's
length, feeling comforted by its glow. Then she looks up and
something she sees takes her breath away. The android's head is
missing from its place in the center of the scrap sculpture.
Slowly the truth begins to dawn on her.
JILL
Oh my God...
She turns, stepping across the threshold into the darkened
hallway crouching defensively, eyes searching the gloom,
expecting the worst. She makes it as far as the door and
nervously reaches out to type the exit code into the wall
console. Her fingers brush the keyboard and in the same instant
the doorbell BUZZES. She types in the four digit code and sighs
with relief as the door HISSES open on its runners.
She starts forward.
JILL
Mo... thank God...

:

She freezes in her tracks. A shadowy figure is standing on the
threshold. A gust of warm air through the doorway snuffs flame of
her torch. Lincoln Weinberg, Jr., lifts a camera to his eye.
FLASH!
Jill jerks back with a YELP. Lincoln lowers the camera, grinning.
LINCOLN
Hi.

JILL
Who -- who are you?!
LINCOLN
I'm a neighbor.
JILL
What do you want?!
LINCOLN
(holding out his hand)
Lincoln Weinberg, Jr.
Jill is torn. Immobilized. She doesn't want to let this creep in.
Doesn't want to join him outside. Doesn't want to stay in here.
He's still holding out his hand. She glances back over her
shoulder. Shakes his hand.
LINCOLN
I thought you might need some help.
JILL
Why?
LINCOLN
Well...
He suddenly raises the camera to his eye again. FLASH!
She blinks, disoriented, irritated.
LINCOLN
Don't mind me. It's a pornographic -photographic study I'm...working on...sorry.
JILL
What can I do for you?
He looks past her.

:

LINCOLN
I wanted to make sure you were all right.
JILL
I'm fine.
(pause)
My boyfriend's asleep in the other room.
Lincoln smiles.

LINCOLN
Your boyfriend.
She nods, tight-lipped. His eyes dance up and down the length of
her body. She suddenly realizes that she's wearing only the
skimpy kimono -LINCOLN
You must have pretty weird taste in men.
-- and that she has a blow-torch in her hand. She points it at
him.
JILL
Get out.
He steps over the threshold. A weird look in his eyes. Intense.
Fevered. He licks his lips.
LINCOLN
Listen. I have to talk to you. I know a lot
about you. I know things about you that you
probably don't even know about yourself...I
bet.
JILL
(backing away)
Oh, Jesus...
The door HISSES shut behind him.
LINCOLN
Whoops.
JILL
Oh, God, no!!
LINCOLN
It's okay --

:

The sound of loud HEAVY METAL comes crashing from the lounge and
the lights the hallway flicker. Lincoln looks bemusedly around.
LINCOLN
Whoa! What's going on around here?
JILL
There's an android running amok in my lounge!!
LINCOLN
What?!
JILL
My boyfriend brought it home with him from the
zone. It must have reactivated itself, I don't
know how. It was all in pieces! We've gotta get
out of here!
LINCOLN
It's okay. Take it easy. We can go to my place.
Jill shoves him aside and types a series of digits into the wall
console. Nothing happens.
JILL
Why doesn't it work?!
LINCOLN
Someone's activated the emergency override. You
can only unlock it from the main terminal.
JILL
How do you know?
LINCOLN
I used to be with the security and surveillance
company that installed all the remote cameras
and safety locks in this block a few years ago.
You made me coffee while I was here.
JILL
(shaking her head)
I don't remember.
LINCOLN
That's okay. I don't mind.
The light flickers again and the music cuts off.
JILL

:

Now what?
LINCOLN
It sounds like something's overloading the
power grid.
There is another abrupt BURST of sound and then silence again.
JILL
Mr... Lincoln? I'm scared. Can you get us out of
here?
LINCOLN
Where's the main terminal?
JILL
In the living room. But -LINCOLN
Don't worry. I know what I’m doing. Here. Gimme
that.
He's reaching for the blow-torch. She's reluctant to hand it
over.
LINCOLN
Come on!
He peels it from her grip and heads down the hall.
JILL
All right. Keep talking so I know where you are.
LINCOLN
I'm right here.
JILL
Please?
LINCOLN
All right.
He turns toward the lounge, brandishing the blow torch, while
Jill crouches beside the locked door, her back against the wall.
LINCOLN
Hello in there. Any androids in there? Come out,
come out...
Lincoln vanishes into the gloom. For a moment there is silence.
Then the HEAVY METAL MUSIC comes on again, louder than before.

:

JILL
(shouting)
Lincoln!
(pause)
Lincoln?!!
Lincoln's voice comes back to her, yelling from the lounge.
LINCOLN (O.S.)
It's okay! I'm in here. I've found the terminal.
There's nothing in here!
She furrows her brow doubtfully. After a moment, she tiptoes back
into the lounge and sees Lincoln standing beside the bed, staring
at the claw marks in the mattress. He looks at her with a bit of
a leer.
LINCOLN
Hot night, huh?
Jill isn't really listening. Her gaze is scanning the room.
LINCOLN
You and the boyfriend really tore up the sheets.
Heh.
She's still looking worriedly about. He follows her gaze.
Shrugging.
LINCOLN
I told you.
(then)
What's his name?
JILL
Whose?
LINCOLN
Your boyfriend's.
JILL
...Moses.
LINCOLN
Moses. Jeez. Some name. He's not around much, is
he? You should get a guy who doesn't leave you
alone so much.
JILL
You can stop talking now.

:

His face goes blank for a second. Then he grins.
LINCOLN
What if i sing? You want me to sing?
JILL
I don't care. Just get us out of here.
LINCOLN
(crossing to the console)
Let's see... um ...how about this?
(snapping his fingers)
Dum. Dum. Dum.
(typing on the keyboard)
Oh we all walk the wibberlee wobberlee WALK.
Oh we all talk the wibberlee wobberlee TALK.
And we all wear wibberlee wobberlee TIES.
And we look at all the pretty girls with
wibberlee wobberlee eyes. Oh - kay! That should
do it.
He gives her an amiable smile. She gestures toward the door with
her head.
JILL
Good. Let's go.
He frowns. Bites his lower lip.
LINCOLN
Wait. Why'd you...?
She just wants out.
JILL
Why'd I what?
LINCOLN
Nothing. I just wanna...
JILL
Wanna what?!
LINCOLN
Your blinds.
JILL
What about them?!

:

The window blinds are closed. The ones through which Lincoln was
watching her. He starts off toward them, snapping his fingers
again. Trying to act casual.
LINCOLN
Dum. Dum. Dum. Oh we all sing the the wibberlee
wobberlee song. Until day is daw-ning...
He crosses the window, making a feeble attempt at dancing,
looking quite absurd in his baseball cap and Hawaiian shirt,
clutching the blow-torch in one hand.
LINCOLN
And we all have that wibberlee wobberlee feeling
in the morning.
(smiling back at her)
You don't want to keep these closed. You won't
see Santa Claus coming.
He pulls the sash, opening the blinds. A red light falls across
him and his smile freezes. There is a face looking back at him
from the other side of the blinds. A thin, malevolent face with
eyes like fire, one side dark as night, ablaze with the stars,
the other a misty blue blur of airbrushed clouds.
It seems to smile at him and he notices that its teeth are
hypodermic needles.
He realizes that he should try to get back but he can't seem to
tear himself away from the creature's gaze. Slowly the angel
reaches out for him, the slats of the blinds crumpling around it
and as if from a great distance he hears Jill begin to scream.
Steel hands enfold him and he feels himself lifted from the
ground.
He gives himself over to the embrace, the blow-torch dropping
from his numbed fingers.
Perhaps this is what he came for.
Perhaps this, at last, is love. This angel places a hand on his
face as if in absolution. Sparks dance in his eyes and he begins
to burn. His legs twitch, dancing in the air.
There is a smell like burning rubber.
His axial vertebrae dislocates with a sharp CRACK and blue smoke
rises in a plume from his hair. Then, in a final instant of white
hot ecstacy, the angel slides a power drill into his groin and
its electrified fingers punch through his eyes into his brain.
Everything lets go at once, blood and urine jetting across the
Venetian blinds. To the the android's heat sensors the blood is a
liquid, golden light. It opens up more holes with its drill,
letting out the light, digging deep into the husk, looking for

:

the source. The light washes over its hands and then begins to
fade. Mark 13 lets Lincoln crumple to the floor, still sitting
astride him, riding out his final spasms, smoke rising all around
it.
Slowly the light dies.
Jill SCREAMS and SCREAMS, trying to shut out the wet tearing
sounds as the android disembowels him, the drill WHINING sharply
as it grates against one of his ribs.
Mark 13 twitches ecstatically, banging Lincoln's head against the
floor as it works its fingers ever deeper into his skull.
INT. APARTMENT DOWNSTAIRS
One of the neighbors, a middle-aged Chinese WOMAN in a dowdy blue
nightgown, climbs onto a table and begins to BANG on the ceiling
with a broom handle.
INT. JILL'S APARTMENT
Mark 13 drops the messy remains of Lincoln's head with a dull
thump, its limbs suddenly still, listening to the banging on the
floor, realizing somewhere deep inside it's damaged brain that it
still has work to do.
It pivots around, infra-red eyes searching for the girl.
INT. HALLWAY
Jill is frantically stabbing the code into the wall console.
She steps back, waiting for the door to open. It doesn't.
JILL
No!!
She swallows a scream. Trying the code. Trying to rein herself
in. Carefully pressing each digit.
Nothing happens. She hits the keypad with her fist.
INT. GUARDROOM - NIGHT
Chief and Vernon sit hunched over a chess board, CHINESE ROCK N'
ROLL turned up to full volume on Chief's transistor radio,
echoing off bare concrete walls that are lined with video
monitors and pages torn from pin-up magazines. Vernon takes one
of Chief's pawns, grinning, the end of his tongue pinched between
his front teeth.
VERNON
Pow! Pow! Pow! Boom!

:

Chief slides his bishop across the board.
CHIEF
Check and mate.
Vernon slaps himself on the head.
VERNON
Oh, wha! How'd you do that? I didn't see that
coming.
Vernon bends over the board, peering myopically at the pieces,
retracing the move.
CHIEF
Sicilian manuever. That's how you beet computers
when you play 'em. Machines don't understand
sacrifice and neither do morons.
Chief cuffs Vernon hard across the ear, sending him tumbling from
his stool.
CHIEF
Read some chess books, you jerk!
VERNON
(holding his head)
Ow! Ow-wow-wow!
INT. JILL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
Jill is leaning her forehead against the cool metal of the door.
Stymied. Something CLATTERS loudly in the room behind her and she
turns with a whimper.
INT. LOUNGE
Red light touches the spider web as Mark 13 peers into the tank.
It sees movement in the web and detects life but there is no
temperature reading. Mark 13 inclines its head as if in thought,
then raises one hand, trying to attract the spider's attention.
Its steel fingers scratch against the glass but the spider
doesn't respond.
The android's retina's expand, watching but not understanding.
INT. HALLWAY
Jill hears the sound of breaking glass. She feels the urge to
scream and raises her hand, biting it hard, almost drawing blood.
She peers into the gloom. A soft mechanical whir comes from the

:

darknesss and she pulls back, flattening herself against the
wall.
The whir grows louder and another sound grows with it. The throb
of an engine turning over, slowly gaining power, gears whining
impatiently. She closes her eyes and jams her hands over her
ears.
Suddenly the lights come on in the hallway and music comes
BLARING at full volume.
"Silent night, Holy night"
Jill shakes her head slowly back and forth.
JILL
(quietly)
Oh, God, help me...
The carol plays on...
"All is calm, All is bright..."
INT. LOUNGE
Mark 13's sitting at the central terminal now, riding the
console, its nervous system plugged directly into the main frame,
sparks flying all around it, fingers twitching wildly across the
keyboard.
INT. HALLWAY
The lights blink off again and Jill begins to edge down the
passage, keeping her back to the wall. The Christmas carol stops,
then starts again, coming at her in disorienting spurts. She
reaches the kitchen door and the lights go on again, then start
to blink rapidly, reaching the hypnotic frequency of a strobe
before sparking and shorting out entirely.
Jill backs into the darkened kitchen. The timer bell goes off in
the microwave behind her and she spins fearfully around. She sees
the LED's flashing chaotically on the wall console and her
blender WHIRRING out of control, a thin blue ribbon of smoke
pouring from its motor.
The coffee maker overboils with a splutter and she pulls back as
scalding liquid sprays across the counter. She sees a red slow
rising from the overheating toaster and an electric carving knife
lies WHIRRING and twitching to itself on the sideboard.
Then suddenly everthing goes quiet. She looks up, knowing what's
going to come next. A movement flickers in the hallway and she

:

sees the gleam of two red eyes cutting through the darkness their
beams highlighted like lasers by the drifting smoke. She pulls
back against the wall, whimpering, knowing she's come to a dead
end.
Then in a flash of inspiration she realizes something.
JILL
(under her breath)
Infra-red! The bastard's working on infra-red!
She crouches, pulling open the freezer and frantically ripping
out its shelves, sending the contents clattering to the floor.
She hears the whir of servo-motors as the android approaches and
without another thought she climbs into the freezer, curling
herself up to make herself as small as possible. She shivers, her
bare skin brushing against frosted metal. She rams her hand into
her mouth, trying to remain absolutely still, trying not to even
breath.
Infra-red eyes pierce the darkness of the kitchen and the android
appears silhouetted in the doorway, its steel claws SCRATCHING on
the linoleum. Its head revolves with a WHIR and for a moment its
looking right at her, then it looks past her and away, WHIRRING
angrily to itself. Suddenly it swings itself across floor so
quickly that Jill almost loses sight of it. It reaches out and
wrenches the cupboard door off its hinges. There is an explosion
of SHATTERING crockery. Jill stifles a yell as shards of broken
porcelain rattle to the floor around her.
The wreckage subsides and the android freezes, standing inhumanly
still, head cocked to one side as if listening. Jill holds her
breath, her eyes wandering across the Formica countertop,
lighting at last on the thing she's been looking for.
The circular power saw she was using earlier that evening, lying
now on a shelf opposite the freezer beside her airbrush and two
cans of polyurethane spray paint. Then her eyes fall to the space
below the shelf and she sees the two cylinders of oxy-acetylene
gas and a plan of action begins to take form in her head.
She breaths out slowly, watching fearfully as her breath steams
in the light of the open freezer.
Now the android sees the plume of steam.
Now it turns.
Now it's looking right at her and she returns its stare without
flinching.

:

It hops toward her, head still cocked to one side, heat sensors
confused by the cold air streaming from the freezer. It stops
only an arm's length away from her and, reaching out blindly,
begins to feel its way around the cold spot.
Jill cowers back as far as she can, numbed by the cold gradually
creeping into her, trying to will herself not to shiver. The
android's hand narrowly misses her foot, closing on a jar of
mayonnaise. It withdraws the jar, holding it up for closer
inspection. Its fingers tighten and the jar shatters, mayonnaise
spattering to the floor in big round globules.
Jill gasps involuntarily. The android drops the remains of the
jar and reaches back into the freezer, its hand feeling its way
toward her trembling face. Then from far off in the apartment
comes the sound of the doorbell ringing.
The android freezes again, deadly still, its fingertips barely an
inch from Jill's terrified eves.
INT. STAIRWAY - NIGHT
Shades stands outside the locked door, shifting uneasily from
foot to foot, chewing a piece of bubble gum. He presses the
doorbell again, frowning. Then he BANGS on it with his fist.
SHADES
JILL! HEY, JILL! YOU IN THERE?
INT. KITCHEN
Jill hears the muffled knocking but doesn't dare move a muscle.
She holds her breath, trying not to let her heart beat too fast.
The steel hand wavers before her eyes.
INT. STAIRWAY
Shades shakes his head, dumbfounded.
SHADES
Jeez.
He leans back against the railing, crossing his arms and blowing
a big, sticky bubble.
INT. KITCHEN
The steel hand wavers and falls, withdrawing from the freezer.
Jill breathes out softly.
The android takes a step backwards, its head pivoting toward the
door.

:

Jill inches forward, her eyes on the power saw. It's lying just
in front of her, its handle sticking out over the edge of the
shelf.
The android takes another step toward the doorway and Jill slowly
reaches out, holding her breath again. The android pauses.
Listening. She leans further forward and her hand fastens on the
power saw's hilt, her fingers so numb with cold she can barely
feel it.
After that everything happens really fast. The android turns in
one fluid movement, its eyes finding her. And Jill is already on
her feet, brandishing the power saw with both hands. And the
android is coming across the kitchen at her in a horrid blur of
motion. And she could swear it's grinning at her. And then the
power saw BUZZES into life and she's screaming at the top of her
lungs.
JILL
EAT THIS! MOTHERFUCKER!!!
The saw descends in a furious arc and the android flings up one
hand to shield its face, suddenly realizing its peril. There is a
flash of sparks and three of the android's fingers go clattering
to the floor where they lie twitching like inch-worms. The saw
blade catches the creature in the chest and Jill SCREAMS as a
streak of sparks and metal splinters fountain into the air. The
android screams, too, and for the first time Jill hears Mark 13’s
voice: a terrible mechanical MEWLING, so low it's more felt than
heard, like a bass note from a synthesizer.
The creature shakes itself, arms flailing wildly, and Jill feels
her own arm laid open from the elbow down, almost to the bone, by
one of the thrashing talons. There is a sharp metallic CLANG as a
claw strikes one of the oxy-acetylene cylinders and a jet of
compressed gas begins to SCREAM from a ruined valve. The android
lunges backwards, jerking the power saw out of her hands.
It collides with the remains of the cupboard and loses its
balance, writhing amidst the broken crockery, trying to dislodge
the blade from its chest, sparks leaping from its joints.
It flings the spinning blade away and the saw sails across the
room into the lounge.
Jill can't stop screaming but her scream is a cry of rage. She
grabs one of the spray cans and then begins to fumble desperately
with the valve of the second oxy-acetylene cylinder, blood
running in rivulets down her arm. There is a high-pitched WHISTLE
and she staggers back as the valve opens, venting the tank's
contents in a thin, vaporous stream.

:

Laughing and crying at the same time, Jill tumbles toward the
door, coughing as the room fills with gas. The android lunges
forward, hydraulic fluid dripping thickly from its chest, and its
steel fingers encircle her ankle. She falls with a SHRIEK,
clawing at the hall carpet with blood-slick hands, remorselessly
pulled back, inch by inch, into the gas-filled kitchen. There is
a loud WHINE and she sees the android's drill arm spin into life,
reaching slowly up between her bare legs. She brandishes the
spray can in one hand and then, reaching in her pocket, she
triumphantly withdraws her cigarette lighter.
EXT. STAIRWAY
Mo comes pounding up the last flight of steps, his face livid
with exertion.
MO
JILL!
He sees Shades standing near the apartment door and grabs him,
shaking him so violently that his dark glasses almost fly off.
MO
Where is she?!
SHADES
Hey, I don't know, man! She wouldn't answer the
door!
Mo practically hurls him down the steps.
MO
THEN GET HELP!!
Mo flings himself against the door, POUNDING his fists on the
steel plating.
MO
JILL! JILL! I'M COMING!!
He WAILS in frustration, tears welling in his eyes.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT
The SHRIEK of escaping gas fills the room, almost drowning out
the sound of Jill's cries.
The spinning drill arm hangs over her, poisinq itself with
surgical precision.

:

She lashes out at the android's face with her free foot as the
creature hunkers closer to her, its retinas widening in
anticipation. She snarls at it, her face twisted in rage and
reaching suddenly out with the spray can she draws a line of
black polyurethane paint across its eyes. The android WHINES,
clutching at its face, and Jill kicks free from its
grip, plunging backwards down the corridor.
She loses her footing and goes down on one knee as she pulls the
pack of Acapulco Gold from her pocket.
Already the android is looking for her again, crouching in the
kitchen doorway, gathering its energy for another attack. She
spins the lighter,
kindling the whole packet, waiting impatiently for the flames to
take hold. She looks up, right into the android's eyes, a thin
smile touching her lips. Then she staggers to her feet, hurling
the blazing cigarette pack and diving for cover. The android
reaches out and effortlessly snatches the blazing pack from the
air like a star outfielder.
Then everything EXPLODES.
EXT. STAIRWAY
The locked door shudders and Mo SCREAMS, flinging himself against
the steel plating.
INT. JILL'S APARTMENT
Jill covers her head with her hands as shards of hot metal rain
around her. Her sleeve catches fire and she rolls on the ground
to smother it, crawling across the blackened carpet toward the
lounge.
Somewhere a fire alarm has begun to RING.
The air seems filled with oily wisps like seeds from a black
dandelion and, looking up, she sees that the kitchen simply isn't
there anymore. The doorway at the end of the hallway is acting
like a chimney, the air shimmering with heat.
She catches the flames for a while, half expecting something to
move within the inferno and then something does but it is only a
blazing wall-fitting subsiding in a cloud of sparks. She stares
into the flames until the sweat evaporates and she feels her
eyebrows shrivel. Then, satisfied at last, she gets to her feet
and limps back into the lounge, cradling her wounded arm against
her chest.

:

She stands on the threshold, surveying her apartment. The tangled
scrap sculpture. The twisted Venetian blinds and blood-stained
walls. The torn sheets and gutted mattress. The melted telephone
receiver dangling slackly on its cord. Lincoln's body sprawled
beside the window, his Hawaiian shirt dark with drying blood, a
white drift of feathers strewn all around him.
She shakes her head.
JILL
God, What a fucking mess.
The steel door HISSES open at the end of the hall and she feels
the cool night wind on her body and she turns to see Mo
silhouetted in the doorway, Chief and Vernon on either side of
him, craning their necks to see inside.
Mo seems frightened.
She starts forward, shrugging to show it's all right and then, as
if in a dream, she sees him draw his shotgun and level it at her
head.
MO
GET DOWN!
She SCREAMS and dives headlong to the floor, feeling something
hot whistle past the back of her neck. She rolls, hugging the
carpet, catching a brief glimpse of an inhuman figure standing
over her.
A writhing, jittering column of living fire.
Then the shotgun jumps in Mo's hands and the burning android is
blown backwards through the doorway into the lounge. Mo dashes
past her followed by the Chief and Vernon and she hears him
reload the shotgun.
Then someone's standing beside her, lifting her in his arms. She
buries her face in Shades' flight jacket and begins to cry.
INT. LOUNGE
Mo stands in the doorway, the shotgun cradled in his arms, Chief
and Vernon flanking him, clutching their automatics.
CHIEF
(looking at the devastation)
Jesus Christ!
The android stands beside the console, wisps of flame rising from
it like tongues of fire in a religious fresco. As one they level
their firearms and the creature lunges toward them, tracking
flame across the carpet, emitting a DEEP BASS TONE as it comes.

:

Mo's shotgun leaps in his arms and the creature whirls frenziedly
across the room, taking the full force of the blast. Chief and
Vernon OPEN FIRE with their automatics, their bullets RICOCHETING
off the android's titanium shell. It lunges backwards against the
window and the glass in one of the panes CRACKS behind it.
It tries to come at them again, its arms tangling in the remains
of the Venetian blinds. Mo slips another shell into his shotgun
and steps forward, SHOOTING it in the chest. Part of the
android's breastplate disintegrates in a mass of sparks and then
the window finally gives way.
For a moment it teeters on the edge, surrounded by a blizzard of
glass, then it is qone, plunging backwards into the night, and
all that is left is the ROAR of the city coming through the
broken window and the sound of glass and debris cascading to the
street thirty floors below.
Mo relaxes slowly, coming down.
He lowers his shotgun as Chief and Vernon go running past him,
looking for a fire extinguisher.
He hears something move behind him and turns to see Jill standing
in the doorway, staring at the window, her face streaked with
tears. He steps toward her, reaching out to take her in his arms,
but she pulls away.
JILL
Where were you?!
She sits down on the end of the bed and begins to tear one of the
sheets into strips, bandaging her arm.
MO
Let me look at that.
JILL
I can take care of it.
Mo decides to remain ouiet. He leans back against the wall by the
door. He hears the HISSSS of fire extinguishers coming from the
hall. Shades wanders past, whistling through his teeth.
SHADES
Mama-mia.
He kneels next to Lincoln's corpse, shaking his head. Then he
looks up at the broken window and the sky beyond. He seems
mesmerized by the view. He rises to a standing position. Gazing
out.
Chief turns off the fire alarm and ducks back into the room.

:

CHIEF
Fire's out. I'm going to call the cops and get
an ambulance.
MO
I already had somebody call. They should have
been here by now.
CHIEF
There was a big riot downtown. Probably have
their hands full. Something about that new bill.
Chief ducks back out.
JILL
Figures.
She stands, broodingly.
JILL
Why waste their time forcing birth control on
us? Why not just send a few of those metal
fuckers into the streets?
She looks at Mo. He doesn't have an answer. She joins Shades at
the window, looking out.
The smog has cleared and the stars are still bright over
rooftops, the the sky a deep, rich blue, and on the far horizon
is the first glow of dawn.
Jill watches the sky slowly change hue. It is criss-crossed with
vapor trails.
High up a supersonic jet is barrelling along on the edge of the
stratosphere, heading someplace else.
JILL
(softly)
I want out from here. I want to get away.
Shades looks at her. Mo has crossed the room and is standing
behind her. Shades looks at the floor, steps away from them.
MO
It's gonna be all right. Things are gonna
change.
She squeezes her eyes shut. Dully:

:

JILL
How much worse can they get?
MO
I mean for the better.
He puts a hand on her shoulder.
MO
...I'll be here.
She sighs raggedly. She almost smiles. Her voice is a hoarse
whisper.
JILL
For how long?
He looks out the window at the changing sky. Then at the back of
her head.
MO
From now on. I’m gonna stay here with you.
(beat)
If you'll let me.
Several seconds pass. Then she turns to him, a smile flickering
on her lips. He gives her a cheeky smile in return. He lets his
hand fall to his side.
MO
You'll be safe with me. I'll look after ya.
She leans her head against his chest and they wrap their arms
tightly around each other.
Shades walks out of the apartment, muttering something inaudible,
staring at the floor all the way.
Suddenly Jill tightens up. She slides her palms up to Mo's chest
and draws back. Looking him square in the eye. Realizing
something...
JILL
You never had to go back, did you? That was a
lie, wasn't it? Your contract is up.
He doesn't answer. His face is blank. Then finally he starts to
shake his head and –-- a blackened steel hand reaches up through the window –and grabs her by the hair!

:

Spinning her around to face the night.
Mo starts forward with a CRY but he is only human and thus far
too slow.
MO
NO!!!!
He catches a fleeting glimpse of a glistening metallic shape
clinging like a spider to the outside of the apartment block and
he raises his shotgun, trying to take aim, but Jill's body is in
the way. Then the android hauls her from his view, pulling her
head-first through the broken window, blood spattering around
her.
He hears her SHRIEK and sees her legs kick for a moment before
the creature releases her and she falls away into the night.
Mo raises the gun, FIRING into the darkness, glass tinkling all
around him, his mouth stretched wide LAUGHING, CRYING, SCREAMING,
FIRING again and again...
EXT. APARTMENT BLOCK - NIGHT
The power line breaks Jill's fall.
She lashes out with one hand, grabbing onto the cable, crying out
in pain, her feet swinging in space. She reaches up with her
other hand to grip the cable more firmly and then just hangs
there for awhile, her head drooping.
She feels blood running down her body and there is a dull pain in
her forehead.
She realizes that she's been badly hurt, but she can't get her
thoughts together much beyond that.
She hears someone shouting in the distance and a sound like
thunder.
Mo's voice drifts back to her from earlier that evening, trying
to explain something to her in his typical half-joking, halfserious manner, his voice small and faint, coming from a long way
off.
MO
They tell you not to look down when you climb a
cliff, but why not? The view is beautiful.
She smiles at his reassurance.
She opens her eyes and looking down sees her bare feet dangling
below her, streaked with blood, crimson droplets falling away to
the street thirty floors below.
She closes her eyes and SCREAMS.

:

INT. JILL'S APARTMENT
Mo's head is bowed, hands clenched on the shotgun, eyes tightly
shut, when he hears her scream. He lifts his head. Can't believe
what he's hearing. Leaps forward and leans out the broken window,
his steel hand clutching the buckled frame.
Jill is swinging from the power line only a few feet below him,
her knuckles white.
He starts to clamber through the broken glass stepping out onto a
narrow, brick parapet, the night wind murmuring about him.
He calls her name and her eyelids flicker.
MO
JILL!
JILL
MO! HELP ME! I'M SLIPPING!
MO
I CAN'T! YOU'RE HANGING ON A POWER LINE! IF I
TOUCH YOU WE'LL BOTH FRY!
JILL
HELP ME! GOD!
MO
YOU’VE GOT TO TRY AND JUMP! THERE’S NO OTHER
WAY!
JILL
I CAN'T DO IT!
Mo looks down and sees the startled faces of the downstairs
NEIGHBORS peering through the curtains of their living room
window, immobile as waxworks.
MO
THERES'S A WINDOW JUST IN FRONT OF YOU! YOU'VE
GOT TO DO IT!
JILL
I CAN’T DO IT!
MO
YOU CAN!
Then something moves just below the ledge and Mo goes pale. There
is a SPUTTER of shorting wiring and Jill SCREAMS as she hears the
electric WHIR of the android's servo-motors. The creature is

:

clinging to a fusebox just below the parapet, drawing in energy,
sparks seething like fireflies all around it.
Mo levels the shotgun as the creature reaches out toward Jill's
dangling body.
MO
JILL! SWING! IT'S COMING!! SWING FOR THE LOVE OF
CHRIST! SWING AND JUMP!!
Jill starts trying to swing herself toward the window.
The android's claw arcs through the air.
She gathers momentum, her kimono flapping around her in crimson
tatters.
The metal claw is inches away and with an EXPLOSION of sparks the
power line snaps under the strain and Jill lets go in mid-swing,
launching herself with a SCREAM toward the lighted window, the
street yawning beneath her.
INT. JILL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
Earlier that evening.
Jill falling backwards in the chair, laughing, Mo standing over
her.
INT. APARTMENT DOWNSTAIRS - NIGHT
The living room window BURSTS in a shower of glass and SCREAMING
Chinese people dive for cover as Jill comes crashing feet first
into their lives, landing awkwardly on the coffee table, upending
a bowl of stale cocktail snacks and coming to rest in a heap on
the floor, one leg twisted under her, blood trickling in a thin
stream from her nose and pooling on the carpet.
It's very red against her pale skin.
The severed power cable HISSES and SPARKS, twisting beside her as
if alive.
EXT. LEDGE
Mo creeps along the parapet, still holding onto the window frame
with one hand.
He sees the android scrambling to pull itself back into the
apartment and he snarls at it, striking it in the face with the
butt of his shotgun, trying to break its grip on the ledge.
MO
GO TO HELL, YOU BASTARD!
The creature looks up at him, freezing him with its gaze. Red
light glints in Mo's eyes, sweat beading on his forehead.
He shivers, trying to look away.

:

The creature seems to be smiling at him, now, a great, groovy
death's head grin.
Then it simply lets go of the parapet, snaking one hand around
Mo's ankle as it falls. Mo YELLS, losing his balance, feeling the
window frame give beneath his weight, the street lights spinning
far below him.
INT. STAIRWAY - NIGHT
Shades is already running on the stairs when he sees the door of
the apartment downstairs burst open and a distraught Chinese
couple come running out onto the landing, screaming for help. He
dashes down the flight, pushing past them into the lighted
doorway.
INT. APARTMENT DOWNSTAIRS
The Chinese woman screams something inarticulate at Shades,
grasping at his sleeve and trying to hold him back. He pushes her
away and manages to keep at arm's length as he struggles down the
corridor into the lounge. He shoves her away and crunches over
broken glass as he approaches Jill’s body.
SHADES
Oh no.
He bends and lifts her, her away from the holding her gently in
his arms as he drags snaking power cable, chanting a mantra under
his breath to try to make things all right.
EXT. LEDGE
Mo clenches his teeth, his eyes bulging as he tries to haul
himself back into the apartment. The electric motor in his hand
whines in protest, frame on the verge of giving out completely,
the window slowly buckling beneath the combined weight of both
him and the creature that dangles from his foot. He wants to grab
the window frame with his other hand, but can't bring himself to
let go of the shotgun.
His hand slips slowly downwards, about to give way.
He closes his eyes.
INT. JILL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
Earlier that evening.
Mo kissing Jill lightly on the cheek as she sleeps.
MO
(whispering)
I'll be back.

:

EXT. LEDGE - NIGHT
Mo's ankle dislocates with a sharp CRACK and he SCREAMS.
EXT. STREET - DAY
Earlier that day.
Shades walking beside him, expounding.
SHADES
New York, Max. That's the place to make it, now.
Think about it.
EXT. LEDGE – NIGHT
Mo's eyes tolled back, head tilted back, moaning through clenched
teeth...
MO
Don't... call me... Max.
Mo laughs, the roar of the street rising all around him...
INT. JILL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
Jill lying beside him in the dark.
His fingers caressing her.
JILL
It's good to have you here, Moses.
MO
It's good to be here.
DISSOLVE THROUGH:
EXT. APARTMENT BLOCK - NIGHT
Jill's body sailing through the picture window, streaked with
blood, glass bursting in a spray around her.
DISSOLVE TO:
EXT. LEDGE – NIGHT
Mo SHOUTS, his cry of rage going out over the rooftops. He pulls
himself upwards, muscles straining, veins standing like cords in
his neck and arms.
He hauls himself over the windowsill like a man doing a berserk
chin-up under an unfair burden, flinging himself to carpet,
landing on his shoulder and rolling, the creature crawling fast
up his legs, eyes blazing.

:

A steel claw flashes through the air, talons glinting in the
half-light, and Mo reaches out to block the blow.
He grasps the android by the wrist with his mechanical hand and
squeezes, forcing the arm slowly back, one of its control cables
snapping with a loud TWANG like a breaking guitar string.
He brings up the shotgun with his other hand, trying to level it
at the creature’s head, but it is still too fast for him. It
lunges foreward and he feels a sharp, stinging pain as it bites
into his forearm.
He releases his grip on the creature's hand, slamming his knee
into its damaged chest, driving it backwards.
The creature regains its balance.
Mo rams the shotgun against its head, pulling the trigger on both
barrels.
There is a flash of light and a deafening CONCUSSION and half the
creature's head disintegrates in a whirl of sparks, one of the
lamp-like eyes snuffing out forever.
It rolls SCREECHING and writhing across the floor, clutching at
the remains of its head, sparks rising from its exposed brain
pan, its face a mess of exposed circuitry and trailing wires.
Mo WHOOPS with delight, reloading the shotgun. The creature
crawls across the blackened carpet, trying to hide behind the
computer terminal.
MO
(chortling)
You can run...
He stands to give chase, but his wounded foot gives way beneath
him and he pitches to the floor. He sits up, feeling a dull pain
throbbing in his good hand. He raises it and sees two small
needle marks in his forearm. A drop of inky fluid oozes slowly
from one of the punctures and the veins in his arm are gradually
darkening, his skin rising in blisters around the wound.
MO
Oh my God...
He looks up and it is as if the apartment is on fire again,
psychedelic pinks and blues flickering across the walls. He
thinks he sees the damaged android watching him, its steel
fingers working on the wiring of the main computer terminal,
plugging itself back into the main frame.
Everything in the apartment seems to be coming to life now, the
scrap sculptures writhing and whispering on the walls,
ventilation tubes coiling like snakes across the ceiling and

:

melted babies twisting their heads to watch him with their dead
black eyes.
He shakes his head wildly from side to side, crying out, trying
to hang on to his sanity.
INT. APARTMENT DOWNSTAIRS - DAWN
Jill swims slowly back to consciousness, a ring of faces peering
down at her. Several Chinese PEOPLE are watching over her, the
Chinese woman who lives there trying to feed her a bowl of soup.
Several VAGRANTS and SQUATTERS crowd into the room, lured by the
commotion.
Chief comes pushing through them, clutching a baseball bat, and
as if dreaming Jill sees his lips move, saying something, his
voice impossibly slow.
CHIEF
Get back. The ambulance is here. We're gonna
move her, now.
She feels something cool on her bending over her face and looking
up she sees Shades splashing water on her forehead.
Then she tries to sit up, suddenly frightened.
JILL
MO!
Shades tries to hold her down.
SHADES
It's all right! Just stay quiet now.
Everything's gonna be all right.
(beat)
There's nothing you can do.
She pushes him away, sitting up, realizing that she's been lying
wrapped in a blanket on a couch in the downstairs neighbors'
lounge.
Her eyes search the faces of the onlookers.
JILL
MO! WHERE ARE YOU?!
INT. JILL'S APARTMENT - LOUNGE - DAWN
Mo stretches out his steel hand, drawing his boot knife.
He clenches his teeth and plunges the knife into his forearm.

:

Blood and black ichor gush from the wound and he BELLOWS with
pain.
He raises his arm, sucking desperately at it, spitting out a
mouthful of warm, bitter fluid.
He feels his nervous system starting to shut down and he raises
the knife again. He knows he has to cut deeper into the infected
veins but he can't seem to get it together. He tries to call for
help, but all he can emit is a thick, syrupy grunt that goes
nowhere, dying in his throat.
The apartment is blazing, now, light streaming up from
everywhere. He sees Jill's wrought iron owl trying to tear itself
off the wall, its steel wings fluttering with impossible life.
He feels that he's drowning, sinking down into a floor that has
suddenly taken on the consistency of warm mud.
Far back in his mind, someone's trying to tell him something.
Something important that he's forgotten.
INT. ROBOT BREAKER'S WAREHOUSE - NIGHT
Alvy hovering over the blueprints.
ALVY
...were testing a bunch of them out on the dune
sea, but there was a fuck up. Seems there was
one structural defect. An Achilles heel in the
insulation system...
The dwarf points at one of the diagrams and Mo feels himself
falling forward, lost in the spinning schematic that unfolds
before him and turns into a glowing, computer-generated mandala.
He realizes that he has lost consciousness and struggles to find
his way out of the maze and back to sanity. Alvy's face swims
before him, grotesquely distorted, emerging from a sea of
circuitry. It points at him and grins.
ALVY
...in the insulation system!
INT. LOUNGE
Mo cries out, his eyes snapping open, the knife still clutched in
his hand.
The android is sitting astride the main terminal, now, drawing
power out of its matrix, slowly gaining strength once more.
It raises its arms like the branches of a metal tree and somehow
it seems insanely beautiful.
Like the Rig Veda. Goddess Kali and the dance of death.
He begins to laugh.

:

Jill's voice comes to him again, whispering from another time
stream.
JILL (V.O.)
Ooh! Jesus God! He's beautiful...
ALVY (V.O.)
It can kill you in seconds and even make you
enjoy it.
JILL (V.O.)
What a monster.
ALVY (V.O.)
...enjoy it...
He looks into Mark 13's eyes and smiles, finding comfort in the
red glow.
He no longer fears it.
In the end everything was perfect after all.
INT. APARTMENT DOWNSTAIRS - DAWN
Jill struggles to her feet, on the edge of panic, now, the
onlookers crowding in around her.
JILL
MOSES!
Chief steps forvard putting a hand on her shoulder, trying to
calm her.
CHIEF
Please, Jill. Listen to me. You can’t -She shoves him hard in the chest and he staggers back. She
snatches the baseball bat from his hands and begins to push
through the crowd, feeling something grafting inside her leg.
JILL
I'M COMING, MO! JUST HANG ON!
INT. LOUNGE
Mo no longer has the strength to laugh. The knife wavers and
falls from his hand and he steps forward out of his body into
Jill's waiting arms.
MO
Fun, huh?

:

JILL
(ruffling his hair)
Don't go, Moses. Don't ever go away again.
MO
I'm not going anywhere.
They kiss and the kiss goes on forever.
Then he's back leaning against the wall on the floor, his eyes
closed, his head dropping slowly forward, mouth slack, heart beat
slowing...
There is a sound: a growing high-pitched WHINE. It might be in
his head.
He whispers, but no one is there to hear him.
MO
I'm sorry...Jill...
Then he is still. Lifeless. The only sound in the room is the
approaching metallic WHINE.
The android is holding aloft Jill's circular saw.
It hunkers over Mo's crumpled form, the saw blade a whirling
blur.
EXT. STAIRWELL - DAWN
Jill struggles painfully up the steps, clutching the baseball
bat, the blanket tied around her like a cloak. She turns to glare
down at the gathering mob, threatening them with the bat to keep
them at bay as a red dawn breaks across the rooftops.
Shades and the Chief stand at their forefront. Shades holds out
his hands to her.
SHADES
Okay, Jill, that's enough. What do you think
you're going to do with that?
She swings the bat at him.
JILL
GET AWAY FROM ME!
Shades leaps back with a YELP and Jill drags herself up onto the
landing in front of her apartment, holding onto the railing for
support. The door is open.
Vernon is peering warily into the apartment, squeezing his
automatic tightly in a sweaty grip. He jumps, startled, as Jill
nears him.

:

JILL
Get out of my way, Vernon!
VERNON
You don't want to go in there, Miss Monroe.
JILL
I SAID GET OUT OF MY WAY, GODDAMNIT!!
VERNON
It's still in there!!!
JILL
SO IS MO!!
Vernon glances over her shoulder. Jill spins around to find the
Chief coming up to grab her. She swings the bat at his head
YELLING at the top of her lungs.
Chief takes a step back, startled more by her shriek than the
bat.
Jill turns and makes a dash for the open door, wincing at the
pain in her leg.
Vernon starts forward and she swings the bat at him, clipping him
in the side of the head with a hollow THOK. He reels back, dazed.
She limps quickly across the threshold into the darkened
apartment.
Behind her the Chief and Vernon are yelling at each other but she
doesn't look back.
INT. JILL'S APARTMENT
Jill staggers across the burned-out hallway, heading for the
lounge, her own head throbbing, filled with fire. She reels
drunkenly, leaning on the bat for support.
She knows she's nearing the limit of her strength but there's
something she has to do.
Behind her, Vernon starts across the threshold, Chief and Shades
right behind him.
INT. LOUNGE
The android is still plugged into the main terminal. It senses
the movement in the hall and reaches out, fingers darting across
the keyboard, the exposed matrix of its brain glowing with light.

:

INT. HALLWAY
There is a HISS of hydraulics and the apartment door slides home
on its runners, its control circuits sparking, close to overload.
Chief sees the door closing and makes a dive for it.
He doesn't make it.
The door catches him just above the hips, squeezing him against
the frame, driving the wind out of him, his body armor CRUMPLING.
The hydraulics SQUEAL. The door automatically reopens.
Chief gasps, trying to get up, but there seems to be something
wrong with his legs.
Shades grabs him by the feet, trying to pull him back across the
threshold.
Vernon turns, too slow, his gaze meeting Chief's for a moment.
Chief's eyes are wide with fear.
INT. LOUNGE
The android hits the keyboard again, overloading the system.
INT. HALLWAY
The door RAMS home on its pistons and the Chief's body unhinges
at the waist.
His arms twitch, his mouth wide open, vomiting a dark jet of
blood so thick it's almost solid.
Shades staggers back against the railing, still clutching Chief's
legs.
Vernon falls to his knees and throws up on the carpet.
Jill looks away, sobbing, staggering into the lounge, the
baseball bat raised in front of her.
Behind her, the door begins to slice open and closed, over and
over, the runners greased with blood, sparks showering from the
control console.
INT. LOUNGE - DAWN
Jill slowly crosses the room, glancing warily about. Then she
sees Mo and starts forward with a gasp, kneeling beside him,
momentarily forgetting her own peril. She touches him and his
head tips slackly to one side. Behind the half-closed lids his
eyes are dull as marbles. Jill shivers, a sob rising inside her,
JILL
Oh, Mo...Mo... Why couldn't you wait for me...?
She reaches out, softly touching his face, straightening his
hair, leaning forward as if to kiss him...

:

JILL
I love you...
She notices that she’s kneeling in a pool of blood that has
spread beneath him.
His left arm is folded under his torso.
She turns him over.
His robot prosthetic hand is missing, severed from his wrist.
Dark fluid drools from the stump.
Jill recoils with a gasp, staggering to her feet.
She turns, brandishing the baseball bat, screaming, minding
tilting slowly into madness.
JILL
GOD DAMN YOU!!!
But the android is already gone from behind the console. She can
see no sign of it but knows it must be somewhere close.
She hears a stealthy movement behind her and spins around in a
black rage.
Vernon is standing in the doorway, pale with shock, automatic
clutched in his trembling hands.
VERNON
What are we gonna do now?!! We can't get out!!
WHAT ARE WE GONNA FUCKING DO?!!!
JILL
(raising the bat)
SHUT UP! You want me to hit you with this
again?!!
Vernon vehemently shakes his head.
JILL
Then just shut the fuck up!
VERNON
(sobbing)
But...but...it's gonna kill us. It got the
Chief. You can't stop it. We're gonna die!
She turns slowly, scanning for the creature, nodding.
JILL
Yeah, eventually. Not today.
VERNON
You...promise?

:

JILL
(nodding)
Cross my heart and... you know the rest.
She hobbles over to the computer terminal. Vernon steps warily
into the room, his eyes searching the wreckage. He sees a dark
stain on the floor and stares at it. A drop of hydraulic fluid
hits him on the cheek and he glances up at the ceiling.
Mark 13 grins down at him, hanging from the light fixture, one
hand plugged into the power socket.
Vernon has just enough to time to let out a strangled yell before
the creature grabs him by the face and lifts him off the floor.
His automatic falls to the carpet, discharging a single shot.
JILL
NO! NO! NO!
Vernon's feet shudder in mid-air and then begin to smoke as
current surges through him.
Jill covers her eyes as the creature flings the security guard
against the wall like a big, broken doll, and jumps eagerly down
after him.
Through her fingers she sees Mark 13 scuttle over to the wall
console that used to control the lighting and stereo system and
plug one hand into the power matrix.
It shudders orgasmically, drawing more energy into its storage
battery and beginning to carve up Vernon's twitching body with
its drill arm.
JILL
WHY DON'T YOU COME AFTER ME, YOU LITTLE POWER
JUNKIE?! YOU SCARED?!
The android glances back at her over its shoulder as if caught in
the midst of a sexual act.
It shifts uneasily, dragging Vernon's body deeper into the
shadows, as if embarrassed.
Then something occurs to Jill.
She bends over the computer terminal, frantically tyoing a series
of digits into the keyboard.
A complex map of the apartment's power grid flashes across the
terminal's visual display.
She grins, pinpointing the android and typing in another command.
The android's brain matrix appears on the screen and she looks up
to see that the creature has turned once again and is watching
her with its single, baleful eye.

:

(PAGE MISSING)
JILL
You have been programmed incorrectly! I am not
the enemy and this is not the zone. I am an
unemployed scrap sculptress and this is a
residential building.
The android seems to be thinking. Then:
JILL
You need to be reprogrammed. What is your memory
bank access code?
MARK 13
Access code classified.
JILL
How does your brain work. Tell me about your
design.
MARK 13
Oh.
We all walk the wibberlee wobberlee WALK
And we all talk the wibberlee wobberlee TALK
And we all wear wibberlee wobberlee TIES
And we look at all the pretty girls with
wibberlee wobberlee EYES
Oh!
In a blur the android disengages itself from the wall console and
comes CLATTERING across the room at her.
She swings the bat, STRIKING it hard in the head.
Sparks shoot from its exposed brain and it stumbles back a step
as Jill retreats toward the door.
It comes at her again and she swings the bat once more, YELLING
as the impact shivers up her arm.
She stumbles into the hallway, whirling the bat around her in an
attempt to keep the android at bay.
She turns, catching a glimpse of Shades watching helplessly from
the other side of the malfunctioning door.
Her guard falters for a second.
SHADES
JILL WATCH OUT!
She spins around and the android is almost upon her.
She YELLS, an animal cry of rage, BATTERING crazily at the
android’s head and exposed brain, keeping it at bay as she backs
down the hall.

:

She braces herself against the bathroom door, making a stand as
the android comes at her again.
She lashes out but the android deflects the blow and she loses
her grip on the bat, sending it CRASHING through the glass shower
partition.
One of Mark 13's claws catches her on the jaw and she reels
backwards, landing awkwardly on the tile floor of the shower
cubicle, the cut in her scalp reopening, blood trickling down her
forehead into her eyes.
Her hand fumbles blindly across the broken glass, reaching for
the handle of the baseball bat.
Mark 13 comes at her fast, now, talons SCRATCHING across the wet
tiling, pinning her down with its newly-acquired prosthetic hand.
The red warning light on the back of the other hand blinks to
life.
She SCREAMS.
A severed power cable SPUTTERS in the creature's damaged chest
but nothing happens. Jill realizes why the android had to plug
itself into the power socket before electrocuting Vernon.
Mark 13's drill arm WHIRS to life, telescoping out toward her,
about to finish something it started once before. Jill SCREAMS,
her head twisting from side to side, her legs thrashing, her
hands clawing in vain at the android's armored breastplate.
EXT. STAIRWAY – DAWN
Shades watches miserably through the swiftly opening-and-closing
door. Breathing in and out through his nose. Mouth shut tight. He
closes his eyes at the sound of another SCREAM.
EXT. STAIRWELL - DAY
Earlier that day.
Mo turned to Shades on the stairs. Looking at him seriously.
MO
...When I'm not around. See nothing happens to
her, okay? Promise me that?
EXT. STAIRWAY - DAWN
Shades opening his eyes and mouth. Drawing a long breath.
Stepping back. Watching the door SLAM open and closed.
Counting under his breath.
Closing his eyes again.
Humming softly to himself.
Trying to match the tone of the electrical pulses that power the
door.

:

He opens his eyes and jumps, sailing across the threshold with a
tremendous leap that would have made a samurai warrior proud.
INT. HALLWAY
Shades stumbles over Chief's torso and sprawls on the charred
floor as the door SLAMS shut behind him with lethal force. He
sits up, staring at the door in disbelief.
Then he hears Jill SCREAM again and he starts to his feet,
prising the automatic from Chief's grip and heading toward the
bathroom.
INT. SHOWER - DAY
Jill's fingers fasten on the baseball bat.
Grasping if with both hands she SLAMS it into the android's
throat.
It backs off an inch and she struggles violently to squirm out of
its grasp.
The drill spins only inches awav from her flesh.
Its mouth snaps at her, hvpodermic teeth dripping venom.
Its claws tangle in her blanket and the fabric TEARS loudly as
she pulls away.
She kicks the android in the chest, breaking one of her toes and
hurtling backwards, pulling right out of the blanket.
The blanket is still warm and for a moment the android is plainly
confused. The drill bites into empty cloth and Jill inches away.
The android looks up, clutching the rags.
Knows it‘s been tricked.
Then Shades is suddenly in the doorway, leveling the Chief's
automatic at the android's head.
The gun jumps in his hand and the bullet WHINES off the
creature's armor plating, RICOCHETING around the cubicle in a
spray of glass.
Jill SCREAMS and ducks and the android turns to Shades, looking
at him as if he were no more a distraction than a fly. Shades
stares back, red light glinting in his dark glasses. It is as if
he hears a countdown for a lift-off echoing in his mind.
The android tenses, preparing to spring.
Shades levels the gun again, finger tightening on the trigger.
Jill tries to regain her footing but her leg no longer seems to
respond.
She reaches for something to grab hold of. Her hand falls on the
hot water tap. She tries to lift herself. The tap just spins
under her weight and all she manages to do is turn on the shower.

:

Steaming water sprays from the shower head and the android's heat
sensors go crazy.
Jill backs off, inching away as the creature runs amok, arms
flailing in all directions, clawing at the falling water and
trying to grab hold of the steam, the shower partition
disintegrating around it in a cloud of pulverized glass.
To Mark 13 the water is a stream of golden light.
There is light everywhere, now, even covering its chassis, and it
reaches out toward the source of the light, a coruscating sunlike object on the cubicle wall.
It reaches toward the shower head.
It feels the light slowly seeping into its body. Seeping into its
mind. Setting its mind on fire.
It begins to understand.
Hot water sprays across its eyes, driven in rivulets across its
metal chassis.
Jill sees a flurry of sparks begin to rise from its exposed
brain.
The android emits a deafening, high-pitched mechanical SCREECH as
it shorts out, its arms pinwheeling out of control.
The prosthetic hand is tearing at the android's own wiring.
Jill suddenly understands and turns both faucets on full.
The android writhes beneath the gently spray, a haze of smoke
filling the air. It falls on its back, twitching spastically,
arms a blur of motion, glass scattering all over.
Its brain matrix burns out in a burst of blue sparks and then at
last it lies still.
The sharp, electric smell of burning insulation hangs heavily in
the air.
Shades takes a step forward, lowering the gun, staring at the
deactivated android in disbelief.
SHADES
Jesus...
The smoke thins, affording them a clear view of Mark 13's
motionless carcass lying sprawled on its back in a shallow
puddle. The spray rings lightly on its chassis, dripping across
its mangled face, pooling in its one remaining eye socket,
leaking deeply into its lifeless circuits.
With a CRY of rage Jill somehow gets to her feet and starts
forward, dancing naked over its body, BEATING at its head with
the baseball bat, SCREAMING and SCREAMING, the blood running off
her in pink rivulets.

:

She beats at it until its head is nothing but a tangle of twisted
microchips and the bat splinters in her blistered hands.
Shades puts a hand on her shoulder and she turns with a snarl,
threatening him with the remains of the bat. He holds his hands
up to her.
SHADES
Jill! Listen to me! Listen...! It's over! You
killed it. It's dead. Look.
He kicks the android. It makes a hollow PLONK.
SHADES
(seriously)
It's not going to get up. It’s finished. Okay?
Jill stands beneath the hot spray, rubbing her eyes and at last,
unnoticed, she lets the tears come, joining the rivulets of warm
water already running down her body.
Shades takes off his flight jacket and drapes it around her
shoulders. Jill drops the remains of the bat and lets him lead
her from the cubicle.
DISSOLVE TO:
INT. LOUNGE - DAY
The rising wail of police sirens.
The clock radio flicks to "6:00 A.M."
A cheesy electronic JINGLE heralds the new broadcast day. The
deejay addresses the devastated lounge, a pulsebeat of heavy
metal in the background.
ANGRY BOB
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! This is
Angry Bob and you are listening to W.A.R. Radio,
somewhere on your dial, and I am here to wake
you up! We got some real good news from the
Department of Defense todav. They're finally
moving forward with the long-delayed Mark 14
project -- I don't know what it is and I don't
care, but if you've got any kind of security
clearance at all, get your unemployed ass down
to Central Robotics first thing Monday morning.
Things are looking up. Just one more reason ta
celebrate on this great day, when we honor the
birth of that very special man...and...yet he
was not a man...
(beat)

:

This is Angry Bob wishing you and yours a very,
merry Christmas!
A HEAVY METAL version of "Hark, the Herald Angels Sing" comes up
loud as another day begins outside the apartment.
The bodies of Mo, Vernon, Chief and Lincoln lie very still
listening to the radio as it gradually gets light.
DISSOLVE TO:
INT. SHOWER - DAY
Mark 13 lies motionless. Water falls all around it. The
prosthetic hand is reaching skyward as if to touch the rain.
FADE TO BLACK.
ROLL END TITLES.
THE END

: