Director: Christopher Cain
Producer: Joe Roth

YOUNG GUNS

JO:!-lN :FUSCO

November 23. 1987

"..l':ml :!ml~:n::t«:.fil ~ ~ Ii1J "1:!00 ~ ~ "nl.m,.

m ©XC:c~ :m ~:v.n, " ' - A A ~ ~ ~a;:o ~
~~ m
~m-.r. ll~~~.

1

EXT. PARADISE STREET - WlllTE OAKS, NEW MEXICO - DAY.
Sodom and Gomorrah--under the guise of a silver town. Not a silver town of legend and
lies, but the real thing: a crammed plaza of lopsided rye mills and smith shops and
gunstores. A tent pitched here and there to serve as an attorney's office or den of Iniquity.
The street is manufactured of mud and mule dung--a quagmire which slows the TRAFFIC
of buckboards, PEOPLE and DOGS. And there Is a strange sense of tension hanging In the
air, STRANGE MUSIC. BEGIN TITLES.

WE MOVE SLOWLY, hauntingly, up the street, passing a CHINESE MAl'< carrying buckets
of soap powder.
A FAT WOMAN ala Calamity Jane Canary stands on a comer. disgustingly drunk and
aggressive. And there are MEXICANS, MUDHEELS. and WELL-DRESSED LADIES packing
the walks. A GER..\1A.N IMMIGRANT In liederhosen hurnes by and he looks lost. Very lost.
REVERSE ANGLE • A CARRIAGE
creaking along the street behind two fine horses. The driver, pronouncedly British In
Imported tweeds and bulldog pipe, is JOHN HENRY TUNSTALL, forty.
Sitting beside him is JOSIAH "DOC" SCURLOCK, a twenty year-old kid who has both a
scruffy miscreant look and a touch of faro dealer's style: long black duster, fingerless
ranch gloves and bowler derby. He keeps a fifty-caliber Sharp's buffalo rille at his side.
Tunstall guides the carnage PAST A REAL ESTATE SNAKE who does his pitch from a
parked buckboard.
REAL ESTATE MAN
The trains is comln' In full and the land of milk and
honey's gain' fast, folks: gain' fast. Coal, copper, more
silver than Colorada. Get your land while you can ...

They continue on PAST THE MAN, PAST SOME MINERS on the comer. PAST A PRETIY
EASTERN GIRL walking with her PARENTS. Doc gives her a smile. tips his derby and
turns around In the buckboard to check her out. Tunstall ls looking In the opposite
direction, at a BUZZARD HEAD standing beside a sign and a SCRAWNY DOG.
TUNSTALL
(British Victorian)
That fellow's selling that dog for five dollars. What
does It do? Give massages?
DOC
(still scoping butt)
They eat dog In White Oaks, John. This is an upscale
type a town. didn't you know that?
Tunstall looks back at the dog vender with startled disgust and does not see-A BUCKBOARD
pulling out In front of them--a near collision. A PACK OF MINERS. filthy sods crammed
Into the wagon, tum foul looks on the Tunstall carnage.

2
Tunstall gets his horses under control while one of the miners CUSSES him out.
TUNSTALL
I do beg of your pardon. Chaps. Didn't see you
coming.
MINER
(a true dog-eater)
Goddamn Englishman--ought'a shoot your dandy ass.
And a second miner unplugs a half-eaten orange from his lips and hurls it at Tunstall,
striking him In the side of the face. The miners ride on. but-Doc makes a move for his buffalo rifle. Tunstall quickly lays a hand against his arm and
stops him.
TUNSTALL
Milk and honey, young man. Mille and honey.
Doc remains tense for a long moment ... then relaxes. The young man speaks with a
distinct Missouri-bred voice, h!s language suggesting a diamond in the rough.
DOC
Sony. John. Just wanted to reciprocate the man's
favor.
TUNSTALL
(pleasantly surprised)
That's a lovely word, that. Reciprocate.

l

i

Doc replaces the Sharps rifle with a thick leatherbound book. and shows Tunstall where
the bookmark is:
DOC
More than three-quarters of the way through David
Copperj'ield.

Doc grins big and proud. Tunstall looks pleased.
TUNSTALL
\.Veil, then, that calls for skipping lunch and going
straight to the saloon for a j oily big glass of-BOOOOM! ASHOTGUNBLAST
explodes and triggers a rush of CHAOS on the other side of the street; SCREAMING.
FOOTSTEPS pounding the wood walkway. MEN SHOUTING. Doc drops the book and
turns.
POV:
across the street a young kid is running; an ungainly, mud-caked young man oftwentyone or so, running through people. tripping, falling, springing back up and running again.
Behind him, a CROWD of nasty-looking men--ten or twelve mudheel types--pursue him,
guns drawn. SHOUTING at him.
REVERSE-TUNSTALL

3
and Doc observe the chase.
TUNSTALL

(Impatiently)
Oh. not another hanging.
ON TI{E WOODEN WAJ..XWAY
the runntng kid, HENRY McCARlY, also known as WIWAM H. BONNEY, clutches a Colt
revolver In his rtght hand and races as fast as h!s tattered boots can take him.
He Is a strange sight: a slight youth with a pale, pinched face, small rodent-like eyes and
bucked teeth. He wears a crushed hat. dtrty canvas Jacket and pants stuffed into boots.
As he runs, he seems to be smirking as if eliciting a thrill from the chase.
Now, as the men get.closer, he grabs at a cart of cabbages and knocks them over, throwing
an obstacle in their path. And with thls coup, he LAUGHS out in an adnoidal, wise-acre
manner. dives to the ground and crawls like a contortionist under a buckboard wagon that
has blocked the walk. He pops out the other side and keeps running. But now SEVERAL
:-ilORE MEN come out an alley to pick up the foot chase.
MUDHEEL
(distantly)
Catch that re-tard and beat the Lucifer out ofhls body!
ACROSS THE STREET
Tunstall cracks h!s horses suddenly and guides the carnage forward. Doc holds on tightly
as they thunder past other horses and wagons and people, trotting through the mud,
outrunntng the men who pursue this puckish derelict.
TURNING DOWN A SIDE STREET
the Englishman passes three more of the running men and moves up on Bonney.
WE KID
ls running, turning occasionally to look back and YELL some adolescent OBSCENITY at his
hunters. Behind him the Tunstall carnage looms, kicking up mud. Getting closer.

The boy spins h!S revolver, trains it on the Englishman, but something smells safe about
the well-dressed gentleman racing by and he doesn't slay him.
TUNSTALL

(as he passes)
Up here, Lad. Huny now. Don't be afraid.
Billy looks back to see a strtng of men turning the corner and FIRING their powder. With a
run and a hop, he grabs onto the back of the carriage and falls in, tralnlng his pistol on
Doc. Doc stares at the gun uncomfortably.
DOC
Hidy.
Billy rolls up to a knee and looks back at the men left behind. He snorts and spils in lheir
direction, then cracks a wild LAUGH.

4
Tunstall keeps the horses movlng and breaks oIT down a carnage road. Billy sits back.
breathless ... his laughter still simmertng. As they get further into the sticks. Tunstall
looks back at the kid.
TUNSTALL

You better keep down. young chap. Couldn't stomach
seeing another body hanged today.
(a pause)
Pardon me--John Tunstall from Lincoln. London.
actually. but currently out of Lincoln.
Billy looks at the clean. manicured hand that Is being offered. He takes It. pumps It once,
then looks back toward White Oaks with a dare-devilish gl!mmer in his blue eyes.
TUNSTALL

(continuing)
And you, my young man?
Billy leans toward the men up front. When he speaks, It Is in a voice high and pinched
(Bonney had his nose broken by a tequila bottle when he was eighteen and never fi.xed).
BILLY
(stately)
Bonney. William H.
(a beat)
And don't get any uh ... uh ... "suspicious" ideas
about what went on back there.
As he speaks. we note that he Is stealing things left and right: stuffing a bottle of Sloan's
Llnament in one pocket. a horseshoe in the other. a tin of shoe-black in his tattered vest.

He's lifting everything butthe pheasants Tunstall has in a cage.
BILLY
(continuing; explaining)
Just a friendly foot race ... in which I was the winner.
DOC
Congratulations.
BILLY
Thank you.
Billy gets into a comfortable position, kicking back with his feet up on the pheasant cage.
He beg!ns BLOWING HIS NOSE LOUDLY into a kerchief. Doc looks over at Tunstall and
arcs a brow as if to say "what a case." Tunstall smiles.
TUNSTALL

Lovely.
Undaunted. Tunstall prances Into the fireball of the New Me.'Cico sun as CREDITS END and
SCORE RISES--LOS LOBOS, Me.'Cican-Amerlcan; upbeat and tough. Music leads into and
through--

5
EXT. JOHN TUNSTALL'S RANCH/OUTSIDE LINCOLN, N.M.--LATE DAY
From the fringes of a LARGE CATI'LE HERD walk FOUR FIGURES, exhausted and
blackened with dirt. Young men, all under twenty-one--rough boys. If It were a hundred
years down the line, they'd be on Harleys, hell-bent for leather. But horses suit them fine.
The first boy Is seventeen, known slmply as DIRIY STEVE. laconic, intense: like a rope
swing twtsted to the very branch.
Not far behind hlm Is CHARLES BOWDRE, a wiseacre, peach-fuzzed and overweight kid
who lS always losing his canvas Levis down his rump. But he lets,them slide now as he
stumbles forward, sweat-drenched and short of breath.
Behind Charles walks DICK BREWER. a Vermont transplant, hard-bodied like a stallion.
And good looking. And just a dog-step behind Dick ts-JOSE CHAVEZ Y CHAVEZ. a lean youth. half-Mexican. half-Zuni Indian. His dark chiseled
features and belt of knives make hlm an lmposlng presence. even at nineteen years old. He
strips off his shirt and scarf. hurrying to get to
·THE WASH TUB
an old-fashioned bath out near a fence where Dirty Steve. Charley and Dick are already
kneeling and splashing and rough-housing.
Levis come off. someone's white butt slips under the water. Dirty Steve hangs his shotgun
on a clothes hook. begins stripping his pants off. but only gets down to hlS red union suit
when he spots an approaching carriage. Brewer spots it. too.
BREWER
(hurried)
John's back. Wash it up and In your supper clothes,
let's go.
The crude manners subside for a moment as the carriage creaks past and Doc balls out.
clutching his buffalo rifle. John Tunstall tips his hat to his brood and continues on toward
the main house, the new boy sitting In back with the birds.
BREWER
(continuing)
Glad you're back, Doc. you can start haulin' rope
inside.
Doc Is still gazing off after the carriage. And so Is Charley and Dirty Steve.
DIRIYSTEVE
(Southern as a cottonmouth)
John take another hard-case in?
CHARLEY
Shit, It ain't another Mexican, Is it?
Chavez Chavez whips a killer look onto Charley. and Brewer instinctively steps between the
two.

6
CHAVEZ CHAVEZ

Mexican-Indian, you sonuvabitch.
CHARLEY

That Just means you need your ass kicked twice,
Chavez.
Again, Chavez makes a move and, again, Brewer holds him back. With the situation
temporarily under control, Brewer turns to Doc and nods toward the carnage, curious.
BREWER
Who Is It?
Doc shakes his head slowly.
DOC
The finest specimen of a piece a'shlt I ever seen.
MOV1NG ACROSS TifE RAN'CH
Tunstall guides the carnage toward the main house. He looks back with an amused smile
and finds Billy staring at the boys around the tub, suspiciously.
BILLY
Who're them?
TIJNSTALL

They. William. Who are they.
POV;
a rouges' gallery of juvenile fuck-ups. Chavez Chavez has gotten to Charley, and they are
shoving each other. Dirty Steve ducks behind Chavez and Charley pushes him into the
tub. Chavez Chavez springs out. drawing a knife. and Brewer and Doc have to constrain
him.
TIJNSTALL (O.S.)

(continuing; seemingly fascinated)
'They'' are boys from the dregs: the flotsam and Jetsam
of frontier society. if you will.
REVERSE ON TIJNSTALL

guiding the carriage right. up along the font of the bunk house. He casts an amused eye
onto young Bonney.
TIJNSTALL

We've got room in the bunkhouse. my young man. If
you don't wish to stay. the Union Pacific runs out of
Mesilla Proper in the morning. If you do wish to stay.
well ...
(he parks)
--we've got Just the job for you.
Billy looks at Tunstall, curious. And hungry.

cr.rr TO:

7
PLOP! A bucket of water hitting the side of an ENORMOUS PIG. William H. Bonney !s
down in the sty. working swine. dumping water into their diied-up mud bath. It !s the next
morning. the sun high and brutal.
Billy bends down to pick up another bucket. but he senses the huge hog SNORTING up on
him, and he wheels clumsily, spilling the water.
BILLY
Git.

Toe pig keeps moving up closer to him. He picks up the empty bucket and threatens It at
the pig. Taking a step back. he falls over another bucket with a CLANK.
ACROSS THE WAY
Dirty Steve and Doc are on their horses. stopping in the middle of beef work to watch the
new boy.

DIRIYSTEVE
(an ever so slow drawl. And this remark
becomes a litany)
He ain't all there. Is he?
ATTHESTY
Billy coaxes the pig away from him and leans on the fence. seemingly assessing the d!smal
situation. At the;: sound of a wooden THUD, he turns and takes in the sight of-CHAVEZ CHAVEZ

standing po!sed in an alley between pig barn and bunkhouse. Motionless. Like wood.
And then his right arm uncoils. strlk.es like a snake at full-length. and releasing a throwing
blade. m WHAAACK! It strlk.es a crudely painted human target in the head. inches from
-three other kn1ves already thrown there.
CHARLEY (O.S.)
Hey.
Charley Bowdre tugs at his baggy Lev!s and grins from the other side of the fence. Billy
gazes vacantly at him.
CHARLEY
(continuing)
You know pigs !s as smart as dogs?
Billy just looks at him.
CHARLEY
(continuing)
That's true. Knew a fella in El Capitan who trained his
pig to bark at strangers.
Billy HISSES smartly at this chubby kid and walks ldly through the mud. fishing a black
cigarette from his pocket.
CHARLEY
(continuing)
Whatchya doin' here. boy?

8
CHARLEY (CONTD)
(a beat)
Mr. Tunstall has a soft spot for runaways and
derelicts--vagrant types--but they can't be any geek off
the street; have to be handy with the steel, If you know
what I mean. Earn your keep.
Billy gets a foot up on the fence and begins scaling the side of the barn. He gets up on a
window ledge about ten feet above the sty and sits like a punk. cigarette nipped in his
overbite.
CHARLEY
(continuing)
We work for Mr. Tunstall as regulators. We regulate
any stealin' of his property. We're damn good, too.
Billy mugs his smoke, looks out past the loquacious Bowdre.
.

CHARLEY

(continuing)
Not that I'm a pistoleer or a knlfesmith like that
greaser Chavez Chavez over there. I'm a pugilist. But,
uh ... I ain't expectin' you to know the explanation of
that word ... hog boy.
Billy, perched on the sill impishly, blows a gust of smoke at Charley, then cracks a caustic
grin which makes his eyes recede in his head.
BILLY
You don't even know why I'm here.
CHARLEY
Sure I do. You're a runaway. derelict, scud-bottom
vagrant, ain't ya? Like the rest of us.
Billy HISSES.
CHARLEY

(continuing)
Footpad, maybe? Petty thief'? Rob a bank? Kill
somebody? Rape your-•
On "kill somebody," Billy winks a blue eye, a sudden, intense wink that makes Its point
with Charley. The heavy-set regulator deciphers this.
CHARLEY
(continuing; busting balls)
Killed somebody? Hoo-dewey--that puts you in luxury
class in the bunkhouse.
Suddenly Dick Brewer comes hell-bent-for-leather around the comer on a sweet black
mare, his colt pistol held high.
BREWER
i--,1
REGULATORS Cattle look spooked down I the lower
f-forty, let's go take a look!

9
Chavez Chavez breaks Into a run down the alley, unhitches his horse, mounts and bolts
after Brewer. Dirty Steve and Doc canter by, Doc wielding buffalo rifle, Steve sawed-off
shotgun. Charley pulls up his ranch pants and starts for a crow-bait pony.
CHARLEY
You ain't a regulator, boy: you stay with the pork.
They're smarter than you-•ya might learn somethln'.
As Charley runs for a horse, Bonney plucks his cigarette butt from his lips and pinches It
In a hard, deliberate aim at Bowdre's back and glares at him with dancing blue eyes that

contain something dangerous. Frightening.
As the regulators thunder off In proud formatlon--Hell's Angels on horseflesh--B!lly Bonney

remains _perched on the window sill of the barn, pigs wallowing In the slime below.

INT. TUNSTALL'S MAIN HOUSE/DINING ROOM - NIGHT
With John Tunstall presiding over the supper table, his five young men and the newest kid,
Billy, are heartily consuming a heavy meal of salt pork. beans and coffee.
Billy Is scrubbed clean, his hair still wet, slicked flat on his head.
TUNSTALL
(beholding his brood with amusement)
Well now, look at these appetites, hmm? William, have
some more pork?
Billy, his mouth packed with beans and com bread, sticks his fork out to the center plate
and spears another slab of meat. All eyes are on him a bit susplc!ously.
BREWER
Ever work beef before, Billy?

With a mouthful of pork and nostrils that don't seem to work. the kid takes his time
answering.
BILLY
Worked some out Fort Sumner way ... Pete Maxwell's
place. Did the chow line, that's about it. But I have a
way with cattle.
Dirty Steve GUFFAWS suddenly••a chortle which he extinguishes by shoveling a spoonful
of beans In his mouth. He SNICKERS behind tight lips. shifting his eyes toward Bowdre
whose bulk quivers In an effort to keep from laughing. Brewer smiles handsomely as he
eats while Doc and Chavez just observe.
TUNSTALL
What seems to be so jolly funny, Master Stevens?
That's not any sort of proper manners.
Steve wipes his mouth with a napkin and sits back. Fueled by the giggles of the others.
Charley decides to impersonate this constricted voice.
CHARLEY
(high and through h!s nose)
I have a way w!Lh cattle ...

10
Now the IAUGHTER really picks up. Even Doc cracks a boyish smile, and Chavez looks up
from his meal alertly, trying to pinpoint the Joke.
TUNSTALL
Charles! Congratulations. You and Steven will be
washing the dirty crockery alone this evening.
CHARLEY

Sorry, John. Struck me funny.
TUNSTALL
And to William. The both of you.
CHARLEY

Apologies. WUl!am. Just hackln' on ya, that's all.
DIRIYSTEVE
Yeah, just hackln' on ya.
Brewer has been staring at the new kid, lost in thought.
BREWER
Rumor has it you killed a man. You don't look like the
kill!n' sort.
DIRIYSTEVE
Why'd you kill him, Billy?
Billy slowly turns his weasel eyes onto Bowdre. Then Dirty Steve.
BILLY
He was hack!n' on me.
Charley quickly lowers his head and resumes eating. Everyone else follows suit except
Tunstall who winks at Billy and slides the bowl of beans down toward him.
TUNSTALL
Did you get enough beans, William?
Billy reaches for them gratefully, showing some beaver teeth.

EXT. TUNSTALL'S RANCH - NEXT DAY
Tunstall walks across his property carrying an inventory notebook. Billy walks along
beside him, cradling an armful of com for the pigs. Tunstall ls counting off requirements.
TUNSTALL
I'll expect you to follow the rules, Billy. I'll expect you
to learn proper manners and to become somewhat of a
gentleman. Clothing ls to be washed twice a week,
beds are to be made up promptly each morning.
Tunstall sees something on the horizon and slows his step, his eyes zoning in on
approaching horses. billy stops walking. displeased with this lecture. He throws his load
of com down and stares after Tunstall. Chavez Chavez is grooming a horse nearby.
He notices Billy's disobedient display.

11
BILLY
What IS thlS, a goddamned boys' school? This IS shit.
But Chavez Ignores him. reaching !nstead for a long blade hidden In his saddle. He sticks
the blade behind him, In his belt, and hurrtes past Billy. And now' Brewer comes walking
past. quickly, drawing his Colt. Billy looks back and forth now between Charley. who
hustles along with a boot pistol. and Dirty Steve clutching a sawed-off shotgun.
Billy looks over at the troop of horsemen approaching Tunstall. Doc passes by him, hlS .50
caliber specialty on his shoulder.
CHARLEY
(tensely quiet)
Come on, kid. fall In. Here comes half of Ireland.
MOVING TOWARD US
a grim procession of thirty men••intlmidatlng men--riding at a walk. Toe MURPHY-DOI.A'!
FACTION comes to a stop outside Tunstall's main house where the Englishman stands. his
rag-tag band of rehabilitating m!screants behind him.
LAWRENCE MURPHY sits high on an Indian Paint. staring coldly at Tunstall as he comes
out of his house. An lrtsh lmmlgrant, he IS the same age as the Engllshman but with the
facial mileage of a heavy boozer.
At his right sits JIMMY DOLAN. a tiny, younger lrtshman. well-dressed. well-armed. and

smiling. Always smiling.
Between the two ranchers rides Lincoln County SHERIFF WILLIA.1\1 BRADY. a dark. husky
man with a wire-hard beard cut Into a tight diamond at his Ups. He wears a .36 Pocket
Police and keeps a rifle across his pommel.
And behind the three front men. there iS an assembly to be reckoned with: a collection of
Southwestern badmen--the All-Star Depopulation Team--twenty-five of them--between
thirty-five and sixty years of age.
(HiStorically !mown as the SEVEN RNERS WARRIORS. Doc Scurlock has his own title.
simply referring to them as the shltheads.)
Billy walks up behind the others. drawing his piStol. He stands at the back of the
formation. trying to fit in.
TUNSTALL
Good afternoon. Gentlemen.
BRADY
(Irish accent)
John ... Mr. Murphy and Mr. Dolan here have lost
another sL,c cattle. They believe you've taken them.
BREWER
That's a fargln' Ile. and you-•
TUNSTALL
--Richard.

12
Brewer retreats and Tunstall stares at him for a time, as If manners were the Issue at
hand.
TUNSTALL

(continuing)
Sheriff Brady. Mr. Murphy and Mr. Dolan are going to
continue coming to you and claiming that I've taken
their property until I'm pronounced a thief and shaken
out of Lincoln. I have never touched their property. I
have no cause to.
The Murphy-Dolan guns BUZZ and LAUGH quietly, as If amused by the refined language
so rarely heard.
MURPHY
(thick Irish)
Well. The Belted Earl has spoken. Look behind ya.
Earl. all I ~are hired thieves. You run a bleedin'
shop for footpads. thieves and dance-house loungers.
TIJNSTALL

And what's that behind you. Lawrence? The
Philadelphia Orchestra? Firstly. I must say, I do resent
your calling my help thieves. These boys are promising
young men learning trades. Acquiring an education.
DOLAN
We've had ya pegged as the sort that likes educatin'
young boys, Tunstall.
MURPHY'S SHITHEADS GUFFAW with the wild abandon of school-bus kids hearing a dirty
Joke. Tunstall's young regulators glare at the older warriors. Eyes lock ... and bum.
Murphy stiffly swings his bulk off his saddle--we've never heard so much CREAKING OF
LEATHER--and he slides down to the ground to look Tunstall' In the eye. The Englishman
doesn't flinch as a tense moment of silence passes between the two men.
Billy squints in concentration, watching the conflict Intensify.
MURPHY
(quietly, to John)
Tunstall, rumor has It that you're going to be bidding
for the government beef contracts. It is just a rumor,
isn't it?
TUNSTALL
Lawrence, you own a ranch and a store. I own a ranch
and a store. You're going to try to make money. I'm
going to try to make money. It's simple.
Murphy moves closer to the Englishman, guides him away a few steps from the gathering.
He speaks softly.
MURPHY
John. You see our good Sheriff sitting up there on that
horse? Do you know how much money he's Invested in
my company?

13
Tunstall does a talce.
MURPHY
(continuing)
His life savings, John. Do you know how much
Interest the Territorial District Attorney and the U.S.
District Attorney have In my securing those beef
contracts? Judge Bristol? Quite a family, my boy. So
you are not just being disrespectful to me ... you're
being disrespectful to what ls· known as The House.
The Ring.
·
Tunstall turns a hard look on Murphy. They are both standing a pace from Billy, who
watches and listens.
TIJNSTALL
I made quite a long steamship journey from London.
Mr. Murphy. Never threw up so much In my life. And
I scoured the land on horse from New York City to
California to here, and I found my plot. I've put every
penny I had into this endeavor, and it has not been
easy. So I shall be damned if I'm going to be dissuaded
by a word like corruption. It's an ugly word. Now take
your sheriff and your henchmen and get off my land.
Murphy stops at his horse, gripping the bridle. He turns and glares at the Englishman.
He no longer speaks quietly.
MURPHY
This is a new country. We won't be bowin' down to ya
no more. Englishman. Get ready for Hell.
TIJNSTALL
They who sow the wind shall reap the whirlwind.
Murphy spits In Tunstall's face. The Regulators go for their guns just as TWENTY-FIVE
MURPHY-DOLAN GUNS CLICK ready. Tunstall raises a hand to his boys as does Brady to
his.

After a tense moment, the sheriff nods his head toward the mountains and the line of
warriors swings out and follows the sheriff and their employers off the Tunstall property.
The shitheads throw deriding remarks at the younger gunmen as they pass by.
When they have gone, Tunstall CLAPS his hands once.
TUNSTALL
Back to work, Chaps. Let's go.
But it takes the boys awhile to thaw. unnerved by the army and the threat. Bllly remains
in his tentative stance, looking after his employer.

14
EXT. TUNSTALL'S RANCH - MAIN HOUSE - NIGHT
Toe cattle are quiet, the winds still. The main adobe house ts lit In one room downstairs
and one up top.
CHAVEZ CHAVEZ (O.S.)

(reading poorly)
For men of enter ... enterprtse and push ... there ts
no better place than New Mexico.
And we can see silhouettes in the upper. lantern-lit window.

INT. TUNSTALL'S DEN
Sitting either in chairs or on the floor, the six young men are strewn about. sleepy after a
hard day and heavy meal. Tunstall sits with a leg thrown over the other. hands folded at a
knee. watching Chavez struggle with an article in the Santa Fe New Mexican. Reading
lessons.
CHAVEZ

(continuing; stammering)
Especially good for those men with a little ... cap ...
TUNSTALL
Capital. Master Chavez. Very good.
Chavez looks up, relieved to be finished.
TUNSTALL
Steven?
Dirty Steve. sitting stone-faced and tinkering with hts spurs, reaches hesitantly for the

news.

·
DOC
Dirty Steve. Eat it up.

Steve takes the paper and locates the spot where Chavez left off. But Steve is what they
would refer to today as dyslexic and has an even greater struggle than Chavez.
DlRlYSTEVE
(monotone)
Of course, every-one-does-not ... suc-ceed. There are
plent-y of men who will never suc-ceed anywhere ... ?
BREWER
We got a roomful of 'em right here.
LAUGHTER fills the room. Everyone but Bllly, sitting on the floor, aloof.
TUNSTALL
Rubbish.

15
DIRIYSTEVE
(still reading)
You can-not pick up gold dollars In the streets In New
Mexico any-more than you can In New York ... ?
TUNSTALL
Well done.
Steve leans back against the wall, looking mean.
TUNSTALL
(continuing)
William?
Billy sniggers sarcastically as he takes the newspaper from Dirty Steve. He passes It
toward Doc.
TUNSTALL
(sternly)
Well. excuse me. Billy. how very sorry I am to oiTend
you. But we are sitting In this room learning to read
and write for a reason. Perhaps you feel that In order
to survive, one need only draw his firearm and blow his
way through obstacles. Not so In the new world, my
young man. So, pick up that journal and finish where
the other boys left o!I or go back to your home on the
bloody streets.
Billy glares hard at Tunstall. Doc. trying to help things along, hands the paper to Billy. He
even finds the spot for him. Billy reads defiantly, stuttering and stumbling through it, but
with Doc helpfully WHISPERING the hard words, he completes the assignment.
BILLY
(reading)
,
Young men who don't know how to do any kind of
business and have no energy or application had better
stay at home near their relate-Ives so they can be
taken care of. They are not wanted here and will only
come to .... grief ... but men of ... enterprise are
practically sure of success.
Billy finishes and sticks the paper out to no one In particular, and he has a self-conscious.
covert smirk on h!S face.
TUNSTALL
William! Splendid! Splendid reading. Did you all hear
that?
Brewer takes the paper ne.'Ct. and, as he turns the pages. Tunstall leans out of his chair
and rubs at Billy's head. Billy pulls back defensively, eyeing Tunstall as if he's going to
shoot him.
TUNSTALL
(continuing)
Okay. Richard. Read to us, if you will. about that
louse Governor's new bill--page three is il? Clearly.
like William now.

16
And William H. Bonney sits back against the wall, gradually relaxing and now touching the
top of his head where the Englishman patted him. And there seems to be a glow--if
slight somewhere 1n his eyes.

EXT. TUNSTALL'S RANCH - DAYS LATER
Billy ls toU!ng 1n the hog pen when John Tunstall's carriage rolls up alongside the fence.
Another young footpad, thief or dance-house lounger, sits beside him--a scruffy young man
named McCLOSKEY, barely twenty. peach-fuzzed and dog mean, wearing a tattered red
flannel and red scarf around his neck. He packs a pistol on his left hip.
TUNSTALL
--if you l1l2 wish to stay, we've got just the job for you.
Billy suddenly grins big and oITers a muddy hand up to the new youth. McC!oskey takes it,
nods hello and Billy jerks him downward while climbing up the fence.
McCLOSKEY
Heyyy!

TUNSTALL
Master Mccloskey, meet WUl!am H. Bonney.
McC!oskey spits 1n the mud and points a finger at Billy who is LAUGHING adnoldally in
donkey tones.
Tunstall cracks ,the horses on and gives Billy a big smile.
TUNSTALL
Now, my young friend, I say you're due for a trip to my
store ... if they haven't burned it to the ground yet.
Billy nods, looking down at the boot that shows his toes.

EXT. TUNSTALL'S STORE - LINCOLN - DAY
A one-mile dirt road dotted with shops. a hotel, saloons.
Tunstall's store, a one-story, flat-roofed trading post, Is situated almost directly across the
street from L. G. Murphy's "Big Store." LOCALS walk to and fro.

INT. TUNSTALL'S STORE
Supplies of every kind. ranging from meat and flour to saddles and cartridges. Tunstall
hands a hat to Billy, a derby variation, and he tries it on. Tunstall studies the look and
nods in approval.
Then comes a fancy vest. A new gunbelt. And the coup de grace--a new Samuel Colt .44
double-action pistol. Billy handles it with reverence. opening the chamber. spinning it.
studying the mechanics.
SEBRON BATES, a black storehand. stands by smiling. observing the transformation.

17

EXT. TUNSTALL'S STORE - A SHORT TIME LATER
Toe front door swtngs open and Billy steps out, adorned in his new outfit, packing his new
steel. He eats some snacks from a paper bag like a poor kid spoiled for a day. ·
Tunstall comes out behind him, carrying a briefcase and grocery bag. Almost immediately
a MEXICAN-AMERICAN FARMER--a Lincolnlte--runs up to the Englishman, breathless.
FARMER
Mr. Tunstall. I'm in big problem.
Tunstall stops, lends an ear, while Billy struts in his new garb a little self-consciously.
FARMER
(continuing)
Mister Murphy and Mister Dolan have given me credit.
Much credit. Now they say if.•
TUNSTALL
--if you don't pay back now, they'll attach your farm,
rtght?
FARMER
SI. s!, s!! My farm, my sheep, my goats ....
TUNSTALL
Ygen!o, Old Chap, here's what you do. My attorney,
Mr. Mcsween, will be back in town in a day or
thereabouts. You go see him. He's working for me on
this very problem.
FARMER
God bless you and your family.
TUNSTALL
In the meantime, come to me for your supplies, or any
other credit you need. You tell the other farmers as
well.
FARMER
SI, s!, thank you. I am afraid, sir.
Bllly, who has stepped a few paces down the walk, is looking across the street at-MURPHY'S STORE
where some MEN hang out in front. La\vrence Murphy walks through the gathertng and
stands at the edge of the walk, glaring across the street at Tunstall. He draws on a
cigarette.
REVERSE ON BILLY
adm!r!ng his reflection now·in the plate glass window ofTunstall's store. He lays a hand
on his new gun, draws, and twirls lt quite skillfully.
CLOSE ON COLT DOUBLE-ACTION

18

r

twirling backwards and forwards in SLOW MOTION, show-boating. When the gun ls slid
back into its leather, normal speed resumes and we find ourselves at--

EXT. TUNSTALL RANCH - LATER
Billy ls twirling h!s gun, standing in an alley between the pig barn and a bull stall. He
grips his new pistol in h!s right hand, his rifle in his left, aJmlng both ... then quickly
throwing the pistol into hls holster, the rifle into his right, and drawing his old pistol with
his left--the "killer shift."
Billy takes a step back and collides with Charley and Steve who have walked up on him.
CHARLEY
Dick catches you malingerizin' and you're gonna be
crow bait, Bonney.
Billy looks into Charley's face and gnns.
BILLY
You got a tin can? I can keep a tin can in the air for
forty-three seconds with pistol and rifle.
CHARLEY

Oh, I'm shakln in my boots.
BILLY
Yep. I can pink a cow between the eyes at twohundred yards.
DIRIYSTEVE
Yeah? I can piss from here to Albuquerue and flood
the Rio Grande.
BILLY
Nah, I can't believe that-CHARLEY
Billy. I bet ya can't ride that bull.
Billy glances over at the stall where a HUGE WHI1E BULL slams his rack into the fence
repeatedly. He looks back at Charley and grins: a grin that makes hls eyes vanish.
BILLY
Don't dare me.
CHARLEY
· I'm darin' ya.
Billy instantly lays his rifle on the ground and scales up the stall.
DICK BREWER
is hauling hay down the alley with Doc, Chavez and McCloskey. He stops dead as he sees-THE WHITE BULL

19
exploding out of the stall, Billy Bonney clinging to its back. and like a spineless rag doll. he
is Instantly hurled up and over the massive horns, landing so hard something has to be
broken.
The bull tramp Jes him.
TIJNSTALL (O.S.)

Billy!
AT TI-IE FENCE
Brewer proceeds quickly with his hay bales. the others followtng to avoid any lashing from
John.
DIRIYSTEVE
(looking at Billy)
He ain't all there, is he?

Doc Jumps the fence and serves as rodeo clown to keep the bull from stomping the fiatbacked kid. Tunstall. wearing white shirt and lunch bib, climbs through the fence and
runs toward Billy, panicking.
TUNSTALL

Billy! Are you all right?!
He kneels beside him, touches his dirty face. Billy is CRYING, crinkling his face, spitting
dirt.
TIJNSTALL

(continuing)
Don't be daunted, Billy.
BILLY
They're laughln' at me. I'll shoot them all in their sleep
and feed 'em to the pigs.
TIJNSTALL

Now now ...
BILLY
I quit...
TIJNSTALL

Billy.
Tunstall waits until Billy is looking him in the eye. He Jays a hand on his shoulder.
TIJNSTALL

(continuing)
Why do you think I took you to town today and had
you properly togged out, hmm?
(a beat)
Because I see in you the potential for something
extraordinary. You're a revelation to me everyday-every day I see it more. The makings of a man ... a
leader. I like you, Billy.
Billy lowers his eyes, dusts o!I his trousers.

20
TUNSTALL
(continuing}
Now what do you say. hmm?
Billy smooths the dents In his hat, puts it back on.
BILLY
I wanna ride the bull agaln.
Tunstall stares at him, blankly for a moment. then emits his high-pitched LAUGH, slapping
Billy's shoulder.
.

INT. TUNSTALL'S MAIN HOUSE - DEN - LATE DAY·
Another reading lesson. Tunstall presides over the seven scrubbed young men strewn
about the room. Doc lS reading.
DOC
Woh. Sweet Celsa. daughter of the sands, he called.
Follow me and we will ride toward Paradise.
(an aside)
Sounds to me like he's givln' her a heap a'shitjust to
get her petticoats up there.
LAUGFITER Even Tunstall does his high chuckle. But then the sound of SPOOKED
CAT!1..E causes Brewer to draw his colt. spin the chamber and SNAP it ready.
Billy sees this. He draws his own gun and does the same. copying Dick.

EXT. TUNSTALL RANCH - DAWN
A barn door flies open and the seven Regulators STAMPEDE. YELLING AND TRlLLING like

Indians.
OUT ON THE RANGE
a pack of TEN BONITO CANYON MEXICANS on horseback are moving through Tunstall's
cattle.
They are an Intimidating group. wearing their hair long--some braJded--and packing a lot of
steel. On detecting the onslaught, they wheel and try to short-cut out toward Seven Rivers.
But-THE REGULATORS
are on them In an instant. Doc Is up in a two-point position. specs on. Sharp's bu!Ialo gun
aimed carefully and POW!
A BONITO RUSTLER
is spun out of his saddle.
BREWER
Drop the steel, amigos!

21
ANOTI{ER RUSTI..ER In the group turns. gripping a huge rifle and begins to go for the
break-action when something, an object. sizzles through the dry air and nails h!s hand
clear through. A blade. He HOWLS In shocked agony.
CHAVEZYCHAVEZ

sweeps for his belt and throws a second knife.
THERUsrLER
takes It In h!s other hand. the rifle falling down along h!s chaps. He Is pierced through
each hand with a knife, and he holds them up to the sky. too shocked to repeat h!s
piercing scream.
THE REGUI.ATORS
encircle the band. keeping them covered. One by one the cattle thieves throw down their
weapons.
Dirty Steve rides up alongside a stubborn rtder and Jams h!s sawed-oJT In his rtbs. making
him cough up a long knife.
Brewer keeps his six on another while McCloskey and Charley weave In and out. frisking
the men on horseback.
BREWER
Murphy send you?!
(no reply)
Ha!? Murphy send you up here to hit on the English?
Doc rtdes alongside a big steer and studies its brand.
DOC
Woh-ho-ho. lookee here. Betty Dear. They weren't ·
taking John's cattle. They were brtnglng a few of
Murphy's In. Trying to make It look like John's
stealing.
The RUsrLERS MUTIER SPANISH amongst themselves.
CHAVEZ

Go ahead. Speak Span!sh.
(he smiles)
I'm Uthuan!an.
They stop. And now one of them. a quiet man at the back of the group. eyes Chavez's back
while slowly sliding a hand down his leg.
BILLY'S EYES
jump to the-HA.1\/D GOING DOWN THE LEG

drawing a boot pistol. going for the kill.
BILLY'S HAND

22
swings up in an eighth of a second. FIRES his Colt.
THE RUSTI.ER
Is knocked off his horse, a lead ball In his skull. A SECOND RUSTI.ER DRAWS and Billy
beats Brewer to the shot, blowing the bonito man away.

THE REGUIATORS
all look at Billy. Brewer seems most surprtsed. Dirty Steve amused. Charley CHUCKLES,
and Doc nods, impressed. Chavez leans over and pats him on the leg.
BREWER
Anybody else wanna test their abilities?
(no answer)
Collect your cattle ... return 'em all to Murphy.
Brewer glances down to see that Billy has jumped off his horse and Is stripping off the
deadman's boot piStol, like collecting a slain deer's rack, a raccoon's tail.
BREWER
Tell them to leave Tunstall alone. Ad!os, assholes.
With a jerk of hiS right rein and a dip of hiS head, the foreman leads his boys back to the
house at a victorious gallop. Doc iS staring at Billy. amazed.

EXT. LINCOLN PROPER - NIGHT
TOWNSPEOPLE are hurrying down the walks toward MUSIC--h!gh-sp!r!ted, Mexican polka
music that carries from a place where a FIRE casts a red and dancing light.
THE DA."iCE SQUARE
iS alive with DA.'\TCERS AND MINGLERS, and the BAND sits close together on a stage.
wailing on accordion, guitar, drums and banjo.
A CARRIAGE

pulls up to the fandango sight, driven by Tunstall dressed In his going-to-town finest.
Right behind him are his boys, on horseback, scrubbed clean and dressed to the nines.
They look out toward the dance, e.xcited.
TUNSTALL
All right, Chaps. On your best. And if you're going to
pursue the opposite se.x. make sure she comes with a
SpaniSh Land Grant.
Tunstall winks, and all leap down to the street.
ON THE SQUARE - A SHORr TIME LATER
Dick Brewer ts dancing a simple step--a Vermont clog-;with a cute MEXICAN GIRL, while
the other young ladies admire his poise from the hay bale sidelines.
Chavez does a traditional step with a HEAVY GERMAN GIRL.

23
NEAR TIIE FIRE
Charley, Steve and McCloskey hang out around a mesquite tree. Charley chain-guzzles
beer, belches, while-ALONG TIIE SIDELINES
BUly approaches a YOUNG BLONDE of thirteen. asks her to dance. She refuses. He
moves down to ANOTIIER I.ADY, twenty-five or so, a redheaded teacher-type, buttoned up
to the chin. She, too, smiles kindly, but passes.
John Tunstall. strolling the square. watching over hiS brood. spots Billy In hiS fruitless
hunt and moves In toward him, gracefully Intercepting him on the way to a third girl.
Placing an arm around the young man. he walks several steps WHISPERING something in
his ear. Billy leaves Tunstall's side. trtes hiS luck again with the third girl. Bingo. he's got
a dance. And Tunstall's got a smile of satisfaction as he walks on.
DOC SCURLOCK,
quite the dandy In white shirt, black suspenders and strtng tie. crosses the dance floor,
pertodically putting hiS specs on to scan the lady population but removing them every time
he suspects being seen.
After a time of looking about, he stops In hiS tracks. Puts his specs on. He looks as if he's
beholding some magnificent sight on the horizon.
ACROSS THE SQUARE
a SMALL GIRL. an Incredibly small girl, Chinese and pretty: dressed In flowing gown, her
face painted like the older ladies, holding a fan and using It well. She moves In SLOW
MOTION, for this Is how Doc sees her, awed at first sight.
Beside her stands a man In contrast to her fragillty--JACK PIERCE, a stout sL'C-footer.
impeccably dressed and weartng a heavy mustache. He moves In SLOW MOTION as well.
But where the little China Doll appears as a dream, Jack Pierce is the stuff of groggy
nightmares.
And he Is surrounded by other men who generate an air of power: JUDGE BRISTOL, a
rotund old man, U.S. DISTRICT ATTORNEY RYNERSON. and his partnerTIIORNTON--a!l
having a drink. a cigar and a IAUGH that surfaces every so often above the MEXICAN'
MUSIC.
DOC SCURLOCK
removes his glasses and starts slowly across the square.
BILLY AND BREWER.
meanwhile, are dancing side-by-side with their ladies and. it has become something of a
competition. As Brewer kicks out a clog, Billy emulates him, moving quicker, crazier, and
grinning with abandon. People begin to congregate.
BY TIIE MESQUITE TREE
three sullen faces look on.

24
MCCLOSKEY
Look at that Billy Bonney go.
D!RlYSTEVE
He ain't all there is he?

CHARLEY
Well, he's there enough to be dancin' with a pretty lady
while we stand here pullin' our tallywhackers.
McCLOSKEY
Damn straight.
And all three adjust their clothes, start sheepishly across the floor.
DOC SCURLOCK
smiles at us: a good looking kid.
DOC
Hidy. My name's Doc.
YEN SUN

stares at him with painted eyes, covers most of her face with her. fan. Her eyes move over
to the man beside her.
ON TI-!E SIDELINES
Jack Pierce lake's in this young man with the lciller smile and a touch of the gambler in his
dress style.
PIERCE
What can I do for you, Young Man?
DOC
Well. if you're an acquaintance of the young miss. Sir. I
was hopin' I could impose upon you to entreat the lady
to dance.
Pierce's eyes go from 20 to 0 flat-out icey black as he stares down at Doc. But he
malnta!ns his insincere grin. Toe politicians around him STOP CHATTING and look on.
curious. Pierce senses the audience and keeps his cool.
PIERCE
Why certainly.
And he takes Yen's slender arm. offering it to Doc who finds this strange. Doc nods politely
to the man and leads the tiny girl across the floor.
Toe politicians RESUME TI-!EIR DIALOGUE. All but Pierce who follows the couple with his
eyes.
BILLY AND BREWER
are cutting heels side-by-side and everyone is around them. WHOOPING. Brewer glances
down at Billy's new boots as they shuffie up a storm. and he looks ner,ous for a moment.

25
until Billy, overwhelmed by the merriment. turns a clog Into a wild Jig and then goes way
over the top. whirling like a puppet at the hands of a deranged puppeteer.
Relieved. Brewer cracks a smile and leads his girl to the sidelines while Billy, abandoned
now by his girl, wheels and saws air-fiddle. even though a SLOW BALLAD ls being played.
DOC SCURLOCK
leads Yen Sun with a grace and style that Tunstall must be proud of.
DOC
What's your name?

YEN
Yen Sun.
DOC
That man with you ... I see he's chatting with Judge
Brtstol. He's a politician?
YEN
Yes. Mr. Jack ls District Attorney.
Doc raises a brow. swings the girl away from the men.

YEN
He's my guardian.
As Doc guides her along, he glances over to see--

THE POLmCIANS
welcomlng Lawrence Murphy and Jimmy Dolan Into their circle. shaking hands,
LAUGHING.
DOC
quickly turns his back to them. beholds the China Doll once more.
DOC
(quoting Shakespeare)
So shows a snowy dove trooping with crows ... as
yonder lady o'er her fellows shows.
Yen looks quizzically at the boy.

YEN
Pardon me?
DOC
It's something I wrote. I'm a poet.
Suddenly. Mr. Pierce steps In and takes Yen's arm back from Doc , who stares expressionlessly into the man's hard face.
PIERCE
Excuse me. Mr. Poet. We must be getting along.

26
DOC
Yes, we're gettlng along swimmingly. thank you, Sir.
And Yen Sun quickly moves to Pierce's side, looks away from Doc as If caught doing something naughty.
PIERCE
I've just been Informed that you're with the Tunstall
company. I guess we won't be seeing much of you
around now, will we? Wherever you mlgrate to, best of
luck, young man.
And with a smile. he starts away, Yen on his arm.
PIERCE
Good evening.
Yen looks over her shoulder at Doc as Pierce nearly drags her along.
DOC
(bitterly)
Good ~venlng.

VOICE (O.S.)

Good evening.
Doc wheels to see ALEX A MCSWEEN. Tunstall's lawyer. a tall, .sharp. Canadian
transplant. On h!s arm Is his wife SUSA."l, a thin, pretty brunette dressed in flowing gown.
DOC
Mr. Mcsween.
(he takes his hand, then Susan's)
Mrs. Mcsween.
SUSAN
You look gallant th!s evening, Josiah Scurlock.
MCSWEEN
John's cleaned you right up, hasn't he?
Doc IAUGHS goodnaturedly, but Is soon gazing off into the crowd. troubled.
SUSAN
Someone break up your dance, Doc?
DOC
District Attorney. He's the gal's guardian.
MCSWEEN
Guardian? Now that's one of the more gentle
euphemlsms going about, I must say.
Doc looks at him questioningly. Ale.'C waits for John Tunstall to come by and ask Susan to
dance. He then leans close to Doc.

27
(

MCSWEEN
Mr. Pierce had one of his shirts ruined at a laundry In
Silver City. He took the celestial woman's daughter as
payment. She Is ... house entertainment. as I
understand It.
Doc stares Into the crowd where he last saw her.
DOC
If they want what you have, they just take It, don't
they? Just like that.
MCSWEEN
That's about what It amounts to. Little boys playing
with power. Playing God.
ON TIIE SIDELINES
sitting on a bale of straw, Billy tries to catch his breath. Dirty Steve walks up to him, sits
down.
BILLY
Boy, that Brewer can't dance to save hls•·
DIRIY STEVE
--1 killed a man, too. ya know.

Silence. Billy looks at the peach-fuzzed face, searching for the point of the statement.
DIRIYSTEVE
(continuing)
Nigra. Bonham, Texas. Painted a church with him.
Remington ten guage. twenty-eight inch double barrel.

Billy stares at him for a long moment, then brings his hands together and begins
CLAPPING, sarcastically.
Dirty Steve reddens and he looks away, watching the musicians.

DIRIYSTEVE

Asshole.
Billy GIGGLES.
CHARLEY
stands before FOUR SCHOOL TEACHER 1YPES. holding his beer with his little finger out.
CHARLEY
(an English accent)
Medicine. I shall receive my degree from St. Michael's
come July, and I'll be practicing here In Lincoln till my
missionary tour of the islands.
Toe warner, are quite smitten.

28
ONTI-iE SQUARE
Tunstall stands olTwlth Alex and Susan.Mcsween. They form a tight little circle. and are
careful that they are not overheard.
TUNSTALL
Did you go up to see the governor. Alex?
Alex nods slowly, and his expression Is not an encouraging one. Tunstall looks worried.

SUSAN
He wouldn't see Ale.'!:. John.
MCSWEEN
I found out afterwards that Murphy made an eighteenhundred dollar contribution to his campaign. They've
got the governor, John.
Tunstall looks sick for a moment. but soon gains his composure.
TUNSTALL
Musn't be daunted. Ale.'!:. You've heard of English
tenacity, haven't you?
Alex and Susan smile warmly at their friend.

TUNSTALL
(continuing)
Let's go have a drink to the bloody-(Tunstall curbs his tongue)
--a drink to the obstacles in life that build one's
character, hmm?
And they walk across the square.
MOVING IN TI-iE OPPOSITE DIRECTION ACROSS TI-iE SQUARE
a tremendously TALL MAN wades through the crowd, a BLONDE WOMAN ·on his arm. He
ls SIX-foot five or slX. and although a candidate for the tall. dark and handsome type. there
is something about his face that suggests Edgar Allan Poe. Especially now as he dri.fts by
the fire and the light catches his sunken. glassy black eyes.
ATTI-iE HAY BALES
Billy remains seated. Dtrty Steve has left and McCloskey stands nearby.
BILLY
(with boyish wonder)
Hey. Look at the giant.
McCLOSKEY
That's Juan Largo: s'what the Me.'Cicans call him
anyway. Looks important. but he's Just a sheep. cattle
and whore thief.

29
BILLY
Hey, when does a fella stop grow!n'? Ya know, what
age?
McCLOSKEY
I don't know. Eighteen, nineteen.
BILLY
Yeahhhh . . . but ya can't believe everything you hear,
McC!oskey. A lot of superstition goln' around.
Billy's eyes light up as the big fellow walks toward them. McC!oskey looks alarmed when
Billy suddenly springs up and places himself In the tall man's path. gawking up at him as
if he was a cireus giant. The man stops and throws a quick smile at his girl. then gazes
down patiently at Billy.
Billy folds his arms and looks over at !V!cC!oskey. gr1nn1ng wisely. The man is smokini! a
cigar and Billy stares at it.
TALL MA."l
Hello there.
BILLY
Hallo. William Bonney. sir.
And he offers a small hand. The tall man engulfs It.
TALLMAN
Pat Garret. Pleasure.
Billy pumps the hand of PAT GARRET ... and doesn't stop.
GARRET
Excuse us, Friend. We have a request for the band.

Billy moves aside just a hair and grins after Pat Garret and his lady.
BILLY
Yeahhh ... I bet I grow to be just as big as_ him. Bigger.
McC!oskey looks at Bonney and shakes his head. bewildered.
ON THE OPPOSITE SIDE
we catch a very quick glimpse of Jimmy Dolan WHISPERING something to EL LOCO, a
brick shithouse of a Mexican farmhand. Dolan and El Loco go separate ways.
JOHN TUNSTALL
stands with Alex and Susan Mcsween when El Loco walks by him and purposely bumps
into him. Tunstall stumbles.
TUNSTALL
I do beg of your pardon.
El Loco--sLx feet of solid fight--shoves the Englishman into the crowd. When he staggers
back into another guy, a miserable looking SILVER MINER. the miner turns on him. But

30
the gl!nt of a blade appears out of nowhere and Chavez crosses between his employer and
the miner, training a stout piece of cutlery on the man's throat.
CHAVEZ

Go home.
Toe miner backs ofi' glowering, but now El Loco has finished removing his vest and he Is
coming for Tunstall.
EL LOCO
Why you push. Gringo? Come here. Me and you.
CHARLEY (O.S.)
No, jolter-head. It's you and I.
Charley cuts In. taking off his hat and handing It to Alex Mcsween. Unbuttoning his
sleeves, he throws a glance back at Tunstall and pops a question.
CHARLEY
(continuing)
That correct. John? You and I?
TUNSTALL
Yes. Yes, !'tis.
CHARLEY
.
(turning back to El Loco)
You get that. Senor? You ... and I.
And on the ''I'', he guns a left jab that could knock a steer to its knees.
El Loco staggers back while Charley shifts his weight and gets into a straJght-backed bare
knuckler's stance. rolling his fists high in the air. El Loco lunges l!ke a big animal and.
again, Bowdre fires--a combination.
Toe CROWD WOOOOOOOOS, then goes silent as El Loco spiris drunkenly; then comes
back with a wide punch. Bowdre ducks it, a picture of grace and hammers his opponent
square In the nose. El Loco drops like a hundred pounds of wet bran.
Bowdre pulls up his drooping trousers and sweeps his eyes across the circle of spectators,
a llttle proud. Tunstall comes up beside him. laying a hand on his back gently and guiding
him off the square. When the others catch a wink and a nod from their surrogate father,
they follow Instantly.
Grinning wide, Billy walks up beside Doc.
BILLY
Pugilist.
DOC
Ain't that somethin'?
And the two follow Tunstall and the other Regulators toward the carriage.
LOS LOBOS MUSIC stays with us throughout--

31
EXT. WOODLAND CARRIAGE ROAD - SUNRISE
The carriage CREAKS along, Tunstall seated comfortably and Oanked on both sides by hiS
boys and their mounts. They are ALL SINGING THE FANDANGO SONG--Tunstall too--loud
and not quite ln key.
Charley ls mimlng Spanish guitar dramatically, and LAUGHTER mLxes with their singing
as they ride into the pink traces of sunrise. A family. And then-Fn·a I I I I! A sound explodes from the brush. CAMERA SWINGS WILDLY ONTO---Brewer drawing his Peacemaker, si:arching the grasses.
--Billy throwing up rifle and pistol.
--Doc cocking his massive .50.
--Charley cocking hiS drunken eyes, baffied and surprised and then finally relieved by the
sight of-WILD TURKEY,
a flock of the huge birds, flutterlng up out of the brush. WARBLING ln terror as they
skitter over the chaparral.
THE REGULATORS
regain composure.
BREWER
(laughing)
Fargin' featherheads scared the Jesus outta me.
Charley SPlITTERS with a IAUGH, runs fingers through his curly hair nervously.
And then Mccloskey breaks forward on his horse golng after the turkey. Dirty Steve
follows, WAR WHOOPING. Then Charley draws his big boot piStol. Brewer, still laughing,
follows too, replacing pistol with rU1e.
Only Billy remalns by Tunstiilfs side.
TUNSTALL
Oh, go on, Billy. Boys will be boys.
Billy looks at Tunstall for a moment. then out at the turkey hunt. A big grln breaks across
his pale face and he kicks his horse, Joining the party, getting into a two-point position,
aiming rifle to the sky.
INTHE BRUSH
horse HOOVES THUNDER ...
ONTHEROAD
Tunstall LAUGHS. takes out his pipe and fills the bowl with tobacco. But behind him.
barely coming INTO FOCUS. are some men on horseback moving at a walk.

32
IN THE BRUSH
Doc aims his rille ...
ON THE ROAD
Tunstall strikes a match. Behind him, the RIDERS get closer. It Is the Seven Rivers
Warriors--CRAZY BILL MORrON in the lead--ten of them. raising thetr rifles.
Tunstall's eyes stop smiling as he lights his pipe. He Is now aware of sounds behind him.
He turns his head, stlily. puffing on his pipe.
MORrON
By Jove, Old Chap. welcome to America.
IN THE BRUSH
seven GUNS FIRE at the turkey 0ock ...
ON THE ROAD
ten Gl.JNS FIRE at John Henry Tunstall.
IN THE BRUSH
a turkey drops. But all heads are turning toward Tunstall in the distance and the sound of
GUNSHOTS.
ON THE ROAD
Tunstall Is spuri' off his carriage. peppered with black powder blasts. His horse is shot
through the head.
IN THE BRUSH
the Regulators look on, devastated. Frozen.
BILLY
NOOOOOO!
Bonney kicks his horse and races toward the scene. Brewer Is right behind him, the
others fall in. weapons ready. But then Brewer spots something else up on the ridge:
NINE MORE GUNMEN
thundering down. WHOOPING. TRILLING. racing toward the young guns. And then
ANOTHER SIX from another dtrectlon.
THE REGULATORS
register the odds. All but Billy riding daredevil toward certain death. SCREAMING In a
nasal war cry. Doc rides up beside him, grabs one of his reins.
DOC
NO! Too many! Too many!
And he gets Billy turned around. The seven of them ride deep into the chaparral. popping
brush and kicking up smoke, and just making it out of reach of the twenty-five Ring guns.

33

EXT. c:msUM PASS - OVERLOOKING TUNSTALL'S RANCH - NIGHT
Seven blackened faces gaze out over FLAMES that chew at Tunstall's Ranch, the only
decent home any of the boys have ever had.
Down In a tangle of brush, Billy kneels, tearing juniper needles olfoftrees and dashtng
them to the ground. His face Is red. his eyes streaming tears. Angry, flustered tears. The
grin Is still there though, held up by those prominent front teeth.
BILLY
Bastards! Fuckers!
(crying deeply)
He was the only one ... you sonsabitches.
He runs hiS baggy sleeve across his lip, wiptng tears and nose run-off and dirt.
:110VE SLOWLY ACROSS each young face, pain and rage and confusion registertng In their
eyes as they behold the burning ranch.
MCSWEEN (V.0.)
(Scripture)
[fa man die ... shall he live again.

CVTTO:
EXT. TUNSTALL'S STORE - NEXT DAY
A quick and cautious funeral Is betng conducted In a small vacant lot just behind the store.
Tension hangs in the street.
The seven young men carry John's coJTin to the freshly dug gr<).ve where Mcsween stands,
holding the Bible. Susan stands near him as does Sebron Bates, the black storehand. and
JUSTICE OF THE PEACE WILSON. a short old man.
All fight tears as the coJTin Is lowered Into the earth. As Dick Brewer begtns a PRAYER.
Mcsween walks away several steps with the JP. They speak quietly.
MCSWEEN
There's not a fool in Lincoln County you can pay to go
after those men. They're with The Ring, JP.
JP
Can't say as I blame them.
MCSWEEN
You're the Justice of the Peace, Wilson. You have the
power to serve warrants through special constables.
JP
Yeah, but what special constables?
Mcsween looks over at the gravesile. al the seven boys, most of them crying. The JP
follows his gaze and looks discouraged.

34
MCSWEEN
Deputize them, JP. It has nothing to do with Brady.
We only want the men who fired the shots.
JP
Those boys have a rough past. Mcsween. Most of 'em
are still wanted in some other state.

MCSWEEN
Are you gonna deputize them?
JP
No. I'm not. Alex. I'm sorry. Ain't right.

MCSWEEN
Okay. Then X!llJ. go tell them.
Wilson swings a nervous look onto Alex then back at-THE BOYS
standing around John's grave--guns on their hips, tears in their eyes.

CUT TO:
AHAND
SLAPPING down on a Bible.
Then ANOTHER HAND on top of that. And A THIRD .. And FOUR MORE HANDS SLAP
down atop one.another, stacked on the Holy Book.
SIX RIFLES
in a row are CRACKED READY. creating one int!m!dat!ng sound.
A KNIFE

twirls and Jams into a sheath at Chavez' hip. There are at least ten other blades there.
stuck in leather.
A BARN DOOR SMASHES OPEN
and the Regulators burst out in a mounted formation of seven. SCORE KICKS IN as the
young guns storm down the main road of the plaza. leaving a gathering of TOWNFOLK
behind.
Mcsween. sitting in a carriage with Sebron Bates and Susan, watches the young men
depart, and he looks concerned. Maybe a little regretful. Bates cracks the horses on and
takes Mr. and Mrs. Mcsween out of town.

EXT. HORREL'S BAR - DEAD MAN'S HOLE - A SHORT TIME LATER
There is nothing around thiS lop-sided. one-story adobe and wood saloon. There must be a
town center somewhere nearby. but it is as if this whiskey mill was removed to the
outskirts. like tossing a shovelful of dogshit just outside the yard. We have never seen a
worse hell hole anytlme. anywhere.

35
Out in front, a FAT MEXICAN' WOMAN sits with her back to the front wall. her skirt pulled
up to her hips and her legs spread wide. Only an empty tequila bottle hides her genitalia,
and she rattles off SPANISH in a low guttural voice.
·
A YOUNG BOY is trying to pull her away, but she is heavy and this frustrates him. TWO
MEN look on. expressionless. not offering a hand. Someone staggers out in the sunlight
and the two men offer him some help. walking. removing his purse and his gun ...
REVERSE • THE REGULATORS
slt on their mounts across the street taking in this sewer of a drtnking spot.
CHAVEZ

Muytipico.
DOC
You got that rtght.
CHARLEY
Hell, Doc. you grew up in a hole worse than that.
DOC
I been cultured since. Charley.
BREWER
Okay--Henry Hill's supposed to have been in there with
a lady since noon. We're gonna show him the ·warrant
and take him home.
THE SALOON DOORS
ny open and a LONG GANGLY FELLOW, a cadaverous miner with a beard nowtng over h!s
chest, lumbers out SNARLING in the brtght sun. He goes to the wall and reaches for the
Mexican woman's bottle. When the little boy protests. he kicks him in the leg, sending him
onto h!s back in the dust.
REVERSE AND CLOSER • ON THE REGULATORS
CHARLEY
(losing a little nerve)
Yeah ... we gotta take him.
McCLOSKEY
Yeah. I'd say we do.
Charley looks over at a stoic Brewer. Brewer looks down the line at Mccloskey. then Steve.
And then Billy, a small form squinting into the light.
BREWER
Hey, uh, Billy? Why don't you go inside and have a
look-see?
Billy looks at Brewer and smiles, then fo:es his eyes on the dangerous hole again.

36
BREWER
(continuing)
Go ahead. Billy. Do It. Just see if HIil's there. If he
IS ...

(hands BIily a warrant)
. . . bring him to us.
Billy takes the warrant. slips It in his Jacket and nonchalantly swings down off h!s mount
and walks briskly across the dusty street.
Brewer and Bowdre exchange furtive. almost guilty glances. Doc looks away, not wanting
any part in It. McCloskey swallows.

INT. HORREL'S BAR - DAY
The Joint Is packed-to-the-gunwales with HIDEOUS TYPES, drinking. gambling,
LAUGHING AND ARGUING. The SMOKE Is thick, funneling In cross-pockets In the DIM
LIGHT that makes its way into the room.
Billy enters WHISTLING and eyes fall upon the ungainly boy in crushed black hat. canvas
Jacket and pants stuffed into boots. A FEW AGGRESSIVE SHOUTS are thrown at him as
he slips through the crowd, beady eyes scanning faces.
THE BARTENDER

looks e."Chausted leaning on lilS counter. h!s hand an inch from a pistol that he keeps In a
drinking glass. A sign over the cash box reads:
"lF YOU HA VE Tll'l'fE FOR A DRlNK,
YOU HA VE TIJl,fE TO WRITE YOUR MGI'HER.
DON'T FORGET MOM.

LETTER PAPER SOW HERE."

A CINNAMON BEAR.
chained to the leg of a chair in which a BIG MAN sits. paces nervously back and forth,
HOOTING occasionally, drawing a similar response from the patrons. FOUR OR FIVE
ONLOOKERS study the animal from a safe comer.
BILLY
looks at the bear wilh great Interest , . , and then a voice, a name, jars him from his
trance.
OLD MAN (O.S.)
Hill Boy! You in for one more?
Billy wheels to locate-HENRY THOMAS HILL.
one of Brady's scum Iiders. standing with a hard. UGLY WOMAN In a comer. He wears
two pistols. Remlngtons. and carries a rifle.

37
HILL
Yeah. I'm In. Gotta use the toilet first.
(tugglrig his belt)
Janey. would you be kind enough to come In and help
me? Doctor told me not to lift anything heavy.
JANEY
Doctor's gonna tell ya you'll never use it again. you talk
that way to me. Henry Hill.
Hill LAUGHS hard and kisses her breast before walklng slowly toward the bathroom.
Neither he nor Janey pay any mind to the simple-looking boy passing by them and
hurrying to the men's room himself.

INT. MEN'S ROOM - HORREL'S BAR
A long horse trough against the wall makes up the toilet facilities. The bottom is carYed
out to allow waste a free run out the back of the saloon and into a river. Flies and other
bugs fill the trough. dot the walls.
Billy stands with his back to us at the trough. having a wee. Hill enters taking a stand
three or four feet down the trough from the kid. He lays his rifle across the back of the
toilet. unbuckles his pants with a long GROAN. rel!eves himself. Once he gets started. he
looks over at the kid who Is WHISTI..lNG a tune.
CLOSER ON BILLY
shifting his eyes onto the man beside him. then slowly turning toward him. his hands still
down at his crotch. as if he's going to piss on him.
BILLY
Hello. Henry!
Sticking out seven and a quarter inches through Billy's fly ls his Colt .41 double-action.
and it is aimed belly-level at the Murphy man.
ANOTHERANGLE-ONTROUGH
and Hill. horrified. as a POWDER CHARGE bums through his lower abdomen. His hand
grabs his rifle on the trough just as Billy FIRES AGAIN. killing him.
A ROAR rises out in the bar. FOOTSTEPS. Billy starts to run. then stops remembering the
·warrant. He produces the paper and crouches, sttilling it in the deadman's mouth.
He then leaps onto the rim of the trough and throws the latch on a tiny window. opening it.
Like a supple rodent. he wiggles out the light space.

INT. HORREL'S BAR
SIX MEN rush to the bathroom. guns drawn. They kick the door in and spot the open
window.

38

EXT. HORREL'S BAR - FRONT
The Regulators are on edge, trying to figure out the unseen action when TEN !VIEN burst
out the front door looking for the murderer.
They FIRE on Billy as he races for his horse. but the young guns fall into action:
--Brewer draws his pistol, BLASTS off a round of charge. dropping three men.
--Dirty Steve FIRES his sawed-off, clearing the porch. He takes a ball in the arm. CURSES.
--Chavez Chavez, gripping a throwing blade in his right hand sees no need to waste lt and
twirls it back into his belt.
--McCloskey FIRES a Dragoon.
--Charley Bowdre Is BLASTING a boot p!stol blindly and erratically. missing everyone, but
doing a good job on the saloon wall.
Billy Jumps on his horse and FIRES ONCE for good luck at the carpet of dead or dying
men. As the other Regulators thunder off with only Steve hurt. Billy lingers a moment to
assess it all. then follows.
BREWER
(as he rides)
Bonney! You weren't supposed to smoke anybody!
We've got warrants! We're the law!
BILLY'S POV - OVERHIS SHOULDER:
tho: other PATRONS of the saloon run out to see what happened. to get a look at the
gunmen. They point at the seven riding high.
REVERSE ON BILLY
as he unhitches his trousers. rises in a two-point stance, and drops his drawers enough so
he can flap open his union suit and bare h!s backside to the crowd.
As we begin to lose the riders in the distance, DOC'S VOICE Is heard OVER. reading from

a paper; reminiscent of reading lessons only weeks back.
DOC (V.O.)
(reading)
Nine men lay dead or at death's door yesterday noon
following a gunfight between Lincoln resident Henry
Hill. forty-five. and what patrons have called a "kid."

EXT. ADOBE WALL ALONG LINCOLN ROAD - DAY
Behind the short wall The Regulators lay in hiding, Doc reading from the Mesilla
Independent.

39
DOC
A local miner has Identified the kid as one Herny
McCarty. also known as William H. Bonney. nineteen
or twenty. In a flaming shootout. the kid. Billy, killed
Mr. Hill then took on an onslaught of Hlll partisans.
brtnglng his damage to six verified slayings. Bonney Is
belleved to be the captain of a deputized gang from-BREWER
--captain?
DIRIYSTEVE
How come It don't' say no thin' about the two I closed
out?
Billy looks toward the paper. grtnnlng.
CHARLEY

Shit. Dick. you sent a Iamb to the slaughter and he
walked out king sheep.
Brewer doesn't look happy about this. Chavez smiles. sharpens a cow horn knife on the
adobe wall.
CHAVEZ
The Kid. El Chlvato.
Doc hands the paper to Mccloskey and looks out over the wall. on the lookout for more of
the wanted men.
McCLOSKEY
Damn. Murphy's gonna go crazy.
DOC'S POV:
on the street Yen Sun. the China Doll. Is walking along by herself carrying a parasol.
REVERSE ON DOC
looking back at his boys and noticing he hasn't been caught.
DOC
Hey. I'll be rtght back. I gotta go see somebody.
BRE\VER
Doc. You know they're gonna be lookln' for us. Don't
be stupid
But Doc goes over the wall. Brewer leans back against a tree. looking tormented.
DIRIYSTEVE
If that boy's peeder were a dowsln' rod and poon-ta
were water, he'd be In the well business for sure.
Billy rolls the chamber on his Colt. snaps it ready.

40
BILLY
Who's next. Dick?
Brewer just stares at him.

EXT. LINCOLN ROAD - SUNSET
Flowers are for sale out In front ofWortley's Hotel and we note that as Doc Scurlock walks
past, hlS coattails In the breeze, derby cocked to one side, a bunch of white carnations
vanish.
ON THE SIDEWALK

Yen Sun walks straight ahead, unaware of the young man hurrying up behind her,
alongside her.
DOC
Pardon me. Hidy.
Yen looks over, sees Doc, keeps walking.
Doc removes his hat with one hand. offers her the flowers with the other.

YEN
I cannot accept that, thank you.
Doc has to run a little to keep up with her.
DOC
You walk fast for a little thing, Yen. !just wanna talk
to you.

YEN
You must like trouble.
DOC
Do I look like trouble to you? I'm a poet. Carrying
flowers!

YEN
(walking fast)
And a gun. A l2iJ! gun.
DOC
lt'sabigtmm.
Doc keeps shuffling along with her.
DOC
(continuing)
Yen, please.
Yen keeps walking. Doc stops, deflated.

41
DOC
(continuing]
Okay, Yen Sun, don't take them. But do take a
message to D!strict Attorney Pierce for me.
Yen hears this and quickens her pace.
DOC
(continuing)
You tell Jack Pierce that The Regulators are gonna
clean house. And I mean The House. And you tell him
that he can't own us like he can own a little China girl
for the price of a ruined shirt!
Yen flinches but holds her head high. She begins WEEPING. silently, and walking so fast
that It has to qualify as running. Doc looks after her, flustered.
DOC
(continuing)
I'm sony, Yen. I wanna help you. Yen!
Doc begins to pursue her around the comer of the post office and nearly runs smack into-THE SEVEN RNERS WARRIORS
--Murphy's shitheads, trotting aggressively.
DOC
does an awkward about-tum and walks as fast as Yen In the opposite direction. When he
hurries past Wortley's Hotel, he sticks the flowers back where they came from.
A tall man. pricing flowers. does a take when he sees this, then returns to sni!Ting roses.
We might recognize him as Pat Garret.

INT. MASONIC LODGE - ABOVE MURPHY'S STORE - DAY
Sheriff Brady. decked In a suit. presides over a meeting between Murphy-Dolan and the
Santa Fe Ring. The ten or twelve men sit In leather chairs around a long table. Pierce,
Judge Br!stol, and Murphy smoke cigars. The mood is tense. Serious politics. Murphy
holds a newspaper.
·
MURPHY

The little juvenile bastards wanna play war, well. we'll
give them their game. I want them dead. All of them.
BRADY
I got two of my best trackers out snilT!n' them
down ... and enough fire power to put out Fort
Stanton ready to go out any second now. They don't
have a chance In hell.
As the Ring members nod ln approval, Murphy rises, all three-hundred pounds ofhin1. and

walks to a window sill where a bollle of rye sils beside a jug of cider. Murphy throws a
double-shot of lhe booze into a glass of cider. swills it as he turns to face the men at the
table.

42
MURPHY

I want their smilln' heads mounted on the roof of the
Englishman's store. I'm serious. Let that bloody
lawyer Mcsween get the message, and let all those
little, plssant farmers who think Tunstall was a hero
see what happens to his worshippers.
The Ring sits shrouded Jn cigar smoke, smug looks on their faces, not as worried about the
young vigilantes as Murphy obviously Is. Not yet anyway,
Pierce throws down a stack of contracts on the table.
PIERCE
Let's get on with these contracts, shall we?
Murphy returns to the table.

EXT. JUNIPER MAZE - OUTSIDE LINCOLN - DAY
Trackers Morton and Baker are hot on the trail of The Regulators. Morton leads on foot,
bent over, fingerlng the grass and bushes. Baker follows. walklng both horses and looklng
around.
As they weave through a maze of shoulder-high Juniper bushes, .Morton stops dead. He

kneels at some horse dropplr)gs.
MORrON
Shit.
BAKER (O.S.J

What's wrong?
MORTON
No, I mean I found some. Horseshlt.
Morton picks up a handful and breaks the dried scat open.
MORrON
They've come out from the Sierra Bonita Just this
momin". The horses have been grazing wild. Bonita
grass, still wet with dew. Pretty damn good, eh Baker'?
No answer. Morton turns around. And goes white.
The Regulators are staring right at him. standlng In tight formation, firearms aimed.
CHAVEZ
Not that good.
Chavez Is up front, kneeling on the back of Baker and keeping a blade pressed at the
shlthead's throat. The Murphy men have been out-tracked by an Indian.

43
EXT. CARRIAGE ROAD- CLOSER TO LINCOLN- DAY
The Regulators form a wall around the two shackled shltheads as they escort them to
Lincoln. Billy Is at the rear.
BAKER

You don't unnerstan', Dick. By killin' Henry Hill, ya'll
started a war.
BREWER
By killin' Mr. Tunstall. you all have started the damned
war, Baker!
MORION
Just the same, we're talkln' filly, sl'cty men against
your what? sL-c'? seven? We're with The Ring, Dick.
As he looks around to count, Billy spits him In the face.

BILLY
We're gonna bury you.
BREWER
Quiet. Bonney.
BAKER
You gonna. Dick? That happens, you know what'll
happen to ya'll. Ya can't beat The House. Dick.
BREWER
We're takln' you to jail. No killln'.
Billy. spitting on the men slowly and deliberately every four or five seconds. raises his
nasal voice.
·
BILLY
Objection. Your Honor. These men are goin' to the
grave In the name of John Tunstall.
Brewer slows his horse to get in close to Bonney.
BREWER
I said, quiet. Billy. I don't want that kinda talk. Law

don't talk like that.
DIRTY STEVE
Yeah, well law don't kill innocent ranchers neither.
right?

DOC
Dirt Face. listen to the constable-BILLY
--take the sonsabilches to Capitan Mountain and blow
their brains out.
Mccloskey rides up on lhe other side of Bllly,

44
McCLOSKEY
Hey, c'mon, B!lly. Easy.
(to Brewer)
Dick, I don't think we should go by way of Capitan.
BREWER
Why's that?
McCLOSKEY
I think Murphy-Dolan are gonna be watchin' the trail

in. They'll ambush us. We should go straight to
Lincoln.
Brewer looks out at the trail ahead and thinks about it. And it Is here that Mccloskey
furtively flits his eyes to Baker and Morton, then lowers them again. But someone's
noticed.
Bllly stops his horse dead and hits McCloskey with a look that could ch!ll the blood of a
firefly.
BILLY
Hey.
McCLOSKEY
(trying to smile)

What's the-BILLY
--hey, I saw that'.
CHARLEY
Saw what?
BILLY
He knows what !just saw.
McCLOSKEY
(a nervous laugh)
No, I don't, Billy. I don't know what you're talkln'
about.
BILLY
Where's the ambush, McCloskey? In Lincoln? You're

trying to steer us away from Capitan cuz you know
your men ... Murphy-Dolan men, are waitin' to Jump
us in Lincoln.
BREWER
B!lly! McCloskey's with us. What are ya talkln' about?
He's a Regulator.
BILLY
He used to work for Murphy and Dolan. That's what
I'm talkin' abciut. He's a spy.

45
BREWER
He's one ofus now. He's been with us. We made a
pact. Right, Mccloskey?
McCLOSKEY
Right. Jesus, Billy.
Billy looks down, shakes his head, then offers a hand to McCloskey. McCloskey takes lt.
relieved.
BILLY
, I'm sorry. Hey.
McCLOSKEY
It's okay, Billy. We're all gettin' a little, you know ...
BILLY
(holding tight to McCloskey's hand)
I'm sorry I didn't snilTyou out sooner, you stinkin'
cock-a-roach.
BOOM! His left hand draws and blasts a powder bum into McCloskey's temple but he still
grips his hand, keeping him from flying olT the saddle. BOOM! He shoots him again
through the nose, then lets him fall.
BREWER
BILLY!!
Morton and Baker haul ass. Doc sets up and nails Baker. When he rockets from the
saddle. Dirty Steve opens up on him with the sawed-off. Brewer is wheeling on his horse.
CRYIXG OUT, trying to get a fl.'C on it all. Billy shifts aim to Morton and UNLOADS in his
back. Chavez hurls a blade. striking Baker as he hits the ground.
·
BILLY
Court adjourned.
BREWER
Moron! You're outta line, you sonuvabitcl:!
Ch_arley is backing his horse away from Billy, and he looks scared shitless.
And Dirty Steve is keeping his distance too, shotgun still In his grip. Chavez Is staring at
the dead bodies.
A tense moment passes between B1lly and Brewer. who stare at each other. Brewer's right
hand is inches from his gun. Doc sees this.
DOC
Dick. I think he might be right. McCloskey's been
actin' strange. Real strange.
Cominced that Dick isn't going to draw, Billy hops off his horse and goes to collect his
prize from the dead.
DICK
Well. then that means we just killed three more
Murphy men.

46
CHARLEY
Christ, Brady's gonna hang us for sure now.
DIRIYSTEVE
What we gonna do, Dick?
CHAVEZ
We gotta go to Old Mexico. We've got no--

CHARLEY
--Diek. what we gonna do?
BREWER
(exploding)
Quiet! Everybody close their fargln' lips for a
goddamned second and let me think.
HOOFBEATS. Close.
DOC
Shit, we better skin out.
BREWER
(panicking)
Okay, everybody skin to the river.
The boys haul ass, and as Brewer passes Bonney, he pulls up and points a threatening
finger at hlm.
BREWER
You! You better stop believtn' the newspapers! You
ain't the captain here and you ain't no Robin Hood!
Billy has found a Jew's harp on McCloskey. He 1'VA."<GS a fiat note. Brewer looks back
toward Doc and Chavez.
BREWER
(continuing)
Get that idiot on a horse.
And Brewer kicks his mare forward, CURSING under h!s breath.

EXT. CAMP BY RIVER BANK - DUSK
While Dick sits etching a stick In the dirt. frowning In concentration. Doc reads the Santa
Fe New Mexican to the others who lay about, resting.
DOC
(reading)
Advices from Lincoln say the young lad of lightningrap!dlty, Iron nerve and marvelous skill, apparently
single-handedly took down Morton and Baker of the
Murphy-Dolan faction. including a ·miraculous shot of
fifty yards.
(an aside)
I'll take that one. thank you. Sir.

47
Billy removes his hat and scratches behind his neck, grtnning as he listens.
DIRIYSTEVE
Single-handedly?
DOC
Hey, and they got a picture. They got a picture that
says "Billy the Kid." But ... it ain't Billy.
Brewer pulls the pages away from Doc to see-A TIN TI'PE PHOTOGRAPH
of Richard Brewer smiling handsomely tn ranch gear.
BREWER
stares in amazement.
BREWER
Hey. That's me.
THE REGtJLA.TORS
all stick their heads tn to look.
BREWER
This is bullshit! That's me. Can't the papers get
anything right?
Doc has retained the page bearing the continued column and continues right on reading.
DOC
(reading)
Advices from sources say that 'The Kid" is tall,
handsome, and unequaled tn the elements that appeal
to the holier emotions.
(laughing)
This country needs a hero, I am telltn' ya.
Brewer walks away shaking his head, his eyes searching the countryside nervously.
DOC
(continuing; to read)
However, SherilI Brady of Lincoln has hired none other
than John Kinney-All heads tum. Brewer wheels.
DOC
(continuing to read)
--and his Dona Ana Bunch to hunt down Billy The Kid
and the gang.
CHARLEY
Wonderful.

48
BILLY
Who's Kinney?
DOC
(reading on In answer)
--an e.'t-soldier who suffered an Injury and ls now a
bounty hunter. According to a doctor's report. this
injury, a blow to the head, produces--under emotional
or physical excltement--paroxysmals of a mixed
character, partly epileptic and partly maniacal.
DIRIYSTEVE
What's that mean?
CHARLEY
It means he can whup some ass.
BREWER (O.S.)
Hey, Doc?_ Can you come here a minute?
Doc r!ses, handing the paper to Billy. Charley and Steve share it with him, worrying over
the new hunter and his bunch.
OUT IN THE BRUSH
Brewer stops walking a good distance from the others. Doc stands with him.

•·

BREWER
We can't go north cuz Murphy-Dolan's got men out of
Fort Sumner. We can't go east cuz Brady and his
posse are closln' in that way, fast. We can't go south
cuz John Kinney's on his way up now. and what's to
the Bunch. forty? We can go west through the Valley
of Fires, but there's-DOC
(shaking his head)
Uh-uh.
BREWER
--the Mescalero Reservation.
DOC
Chief Vlctolio is having an e."ctremely good year with
scalps, no thank you. Richard.

Brewer stands quietly, kicking the toe of his boot oJT the ground as if his feet are cold.
BREWER
I don't know what to do.
DOC
I don't know what to say. All sounds like a sue-man
funeral to me.
Brewer nods. looking olT Into the cottonwoods from which Chavez emerges walking barefoot·
and carrying his hat upturned and filled lo the brim with something: some sort of strange
!1owers.

49
BREWER
Now what the hell's~ doing?
Chavez continues In his light bouncing walk toward the camp.
BY THE CAMPFIRE • AN HOUR LATER. NIGI-IT
A large tin pot IS bolling over a small fire. Black liquid runs down the side, curdles.

Chavez drops a small. round, bark-llght substance into the rolling boll. Then another.
The Regulators sit around the fire staring at Chavez. Billy sniffs the air then covers hlS
nose. Charley spits.
CHARLEY

I'm gonna ask ya one more time, Chavez, then I'm
gonna hog-tie ya and beat your ass. What the hell ls it
and why does it stink so bad?
Firelight plays on the Mexican-Indian's wet face. When he speaks. it ls intense: a power we
have not yet seen from Chavez.
CHAVEZ
We've come to a place where we are Jost.no? Very Jost.
When an Indian IS lost, he must reach into the Splrtt
World to find the way. On the Spirit Road, he'll be
shown a sign. To get there, he must enter The Church.
(waving his hand over the bolling peyote)
This IS "the way" ... The Church.
Chavez has been putting on ranch gloves during this explanation and now he grabs the tin.
raising It out of the names.
CHAVEZ
(continuing)
We are lost. So I will find us the way.
DIRIYSTEVE
Oh Chr!st, this Is all we need. huh? some red-ass Zuni
mambojahambo. We're runnin' outta time here!
Chavez brings the tin to his pursed lips and swallows the hot black drink. He takes a
second swallow, then lowers the pot to hlS lap. When Billy nudges him. he looks surprised
and hesitates for a time before passing the tin to him.
Billy ralSes the peyote-derivative to his lips and drinks heartily for a moment before sitting
back with a nasty face.
CHARLEY

Any good? What Is it?
CHAVEZ
Peyote.
Charley grabs it from Billy and takes a long defiant drink. then olrers it to Brewer. The
constable declines. Doc reaches over the name for the tin of peyote derivative.

50
DOC
I tend to like Me.'C.ican. to be flat-out honest with ya.
And Doc swallows a long one. COUGHING at the finish. smacking h!s llps bitterly.
DOC
(continuing)
Shit! Whatchya do. mistake a coyote for a cow and
milk the wrong udder? Damn. that's rough.
Dirty Steve takes It. guzzles some down. Wipes his chin. He swallows some more.
The tin comes back to Chavez who drinks long and steady. Again he hands it to Billy. And
it goes around and around and ...
TiiE SUN IS RISING
in the distance over the Valley of Fires--acres of black lava formations that glow under the
aurora.
A RAVEN
courses the fiery sky. then comes to land on some carrion within range of the fire.
CAMERA MOVES SLOWLY around-THE FIRE
!

where we pick up Billy. His face. His eyes. He Is sweating like a sick man. A FIDDLE
begins a strange solo flight.
FLASHBACK - ·sEPIA- KANSAS. 1870
Ten year-old HENRY McCARIY (Bllly's real name) stands with h!s stepfather. WILLIA.\1
ANTRIM. a hard-faced prospector with hopelessness in his eyes. Billy has a goat with him.
a young Alpine buck.
ANTRIM
Billy. Help me put Nancy in the cart an' we'll take her
for a rtde.
Billy grtns and hops once, CLAPPING his hands. He helps h!s father get the goat in the

cart.

EXT. CAMPFIRE
Billy's eyes.
FLASHBACK - KANSAS
Toe goat ls in the cart. roped down. And Antrim is raising something from his hip. A

knife.
Billy SCREAMS out. lunges at his stepfather's leg. Antrim knocks him down, kicks him.
The GOAT IS BLEATING as his throat is severed.
Antrim resumes his work but--

51
Billy grabs Antrim's leg and bites It. Antrim kicks him again, and, as Billy rises, tries to
run, the stepfather backhands him. Billy grabs at Antrim's hip, swiping an old pistol. He
hightails It, turning and aiming the gun at him every few feet ... but just bluffing angrily,
CURSING AND CRYING AND SPITTING ... and running.
.

EXT. CAMPFIRE
Billy's eyes. Glaring. Tearing. Dancing blue eyes.
FLASHBACK - SEPIA - ARlZONA
Young Billy stands at the end of a deserted road, F!RlNG the old pistol at the side of a
barn, his face contorted.
The bullets pierce the wall. ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR--number FIVE nails the
advertisement for CHIEF 'nVO-MOON'S SNAKE OIL. NUMBER SIX hits the picture of a
man in a bowler derby between the eyes.

EXT. CAMPFIRE
Billy's eyes, closing tight. Opening.
FLASHBACK - SEPIA - FORT GRANT, 1','EW MEXICO
Billy, peach fuzz at his chin, Is digging through a trash basket on a crowded street. WINDY
CAHILL, a blacksmith who tips the beam at two-eighty. snags him from behind, slams him
to the wooden walk. He then lifts up the trash basket, spills It over the homeless youth's
head.
Billy draws the old plstol--BLAM!!

EXT. CAMPFIRE - DAWN
BL.AM! ! Dirty Steve, wild-eyed. has just fired his sawed-off at nothing.
D!RlYSTEVE
Did you see the size of that chicken?!
Brewer Is out of his bedroll, pistol aimed, and now as he takes in the sight of h!s
hallucinating crew, he spits at the ground and Iles back down. Disgusted.
Charley IS bent at a stump, vomiting.
DOC IS WALKING
through a growth of desert primrose.
DOC
Butterflies ... find one flower ... and Uy to it ... and
stay with it. They don't know why it's their flower.
They Just feel it ... and fly to it. She ls my flower and
I'm--

52
BI.AM!! Steve fires at Doc. blasting a hole in a cactus inches from hlS thigh.
D!RIYSTEVE
--chicken! Are you fellas seein' the size of this cock-adoodle-goddamned-do?!
Doc only stares. a gentle look on his face. and he continues walking.
DOC
We don't know why ... we Just feel ...

CHAVEZ ON HIS HORSE
looks dlSturbingly Intense. hlS back straight. his long hair hanging down--the Zuni Indian
In him surfacJng--and he ls taking his horse through an endless series of circles; tight.

little rotations as if not sure where to go.
And then he breaks off West. leaving the others In the dust. But shit. thlS IS the guy who's
supposed to be finding "the way." and It doesn't take long for every young man to hit saddle
leather--a few falling and trying agaln--and setting chase.
Brewer IS last. looking torn. MUTTERING angrily to himself.

EXT. RUIDOSO TRAIL· SUNRISE
The Regulators--peyote stoned e."Ccept for Brewer--r!de behind Chavez. Dirty Steve IS lying
low, hyperngllant: Billy, an odd assortment of cactus flower and desert weeds stuck In the
brim of hlS hat. grins with great enthusiasm; while a topless Charley wears hlS shirt
draped over hlS head and under his hat. resembling a foreign soldier of some kind.
Brewer tags along aga!nst hlS better judgment but knowing there's nothing else he can do,
and he can't believe Doc Scurlock who rides very close to him \VHISPER!NG with
sacrosanct intensity, tears of heavenly vision In his eyes.
DOC
It's all destiny, Dick. It's all figured up there and ya
can't fight it.
Brewer does a take ... then makes the sign of the cross.
A SIGN
reads "MESCALERO APACHE INDlAi.'i RESERVATION." The horses walk past it and-INTO THE RESERVATION
.

where Brewer lowers himSelf In his saddle and cringes. He tries to tap at Charley who has
been getting excited about a song he once heard and has fondly remembered.
CHARLEY
(singing)
Birdie hop out and crow hop in,
Three hands round and go it again.
Allamane left and back to pardner.
A ROW OF ADOBE HOUSES

53

--

...

suddenly comes alive with faces. And within seconds, 1WO HUNDRED NATIVES, Apache
Indians, crawl out. armed for business. From both sides of the dirt trail they converge,
leaving the entourage litlle room to ride through.
Chavez says nothing, does nothing, just being, riding.
CHARLEY
Hey, Chavez, why ain't they klllln' us?

DIRIYSTEVE
Cuz we're In the Splrit World, asshole. Tuey can't see
us.
Billy, flowers sprouting out of h!s hat, waves fervently.
BILLY
HI. Hallo,
THE NATIVES
exchange curious glances. lower their rlfles. One of them who might be CHIEF VICTORIO,
short and muscular, craggy-faced. ra!ses a hand, confused.
THE REGULATORS
stoned as bastards ride on.
BILLY
(continuing)
Hallo there, Indians. HI. We're In the Spirit World.
Brewer rides low, praying, hardly able to believe he ls doing this.
CHARLEY

Come to yer pardner once and half.
Yellow hammer right and Jaybird left ....
But they make It, reaching the end of the reservation property and descending down Into
pine forest.
·
THE NATIVES
return to their adobe houses to go back to sleep. The WIND WHISTLES through open
"indows and doorways for a time, and then SEVERAL LAUGHS rise up from the silence
within.

EXT. BLAZER'S SAWMILL• RUISDOSO, NEW MEXICO· DAY
A sawyer outfit constructed of cheap wood on a lopsided stone foundation. Historical date
fades in:
APRIL4

Dirty Steve· ls standing outside, shotgun in one hand, a half-eaten turkey leg in the other.
He ls on watch patrol.
A FLY BUZZES around his turkey leg. He blows at it.

54

INT. BLAZER'S INN
The Regulators sit around a fine meal in which there is included three bottles ofred wine.
Two waiters, DAVID EASTON and EMILE BLAZER. are innocuous-looking New England
types, and nervous as hell.
BREWER
Lord forgive us for our wrong-doln's-(eyes on Billy)
--and for our misguidance by heathen rellglons-(eyes on Chavez)
thank you for keeping us alive. And please guide us in
doing the right thing. Please-BILLY
Hey, Dick. Really. Hah? It's gettin' cold.
Brewer e.xplodes, suddenly drawtng his pistol, but Billy has beat him to the draw. The
waiters Jump back against the wall. spilling mashed potatoes and turnips. Brewer and
Bonney stare down the barrels of each other's pistols. Brewer IS trembling with anger.
BILLY
(continuing)
I could'a killed ya. Dick. I don't wanna kill ya. I
wanna eat.
DICK
When we finish this meal. we're gain' out into the saw
yard, you little rodent. and we're gonna see who has
the right to run this group of lawmen.
Billy nods and Brewer slowly lowers his gun. making dead sure Bonney is doing the same.
DOC
Richard, would you be kind enough to pass the gravy?
Dick lets a long sough quiver free, then passes the gravy.

EXT. BLAZER'S SAWMILL
Dirty Steve finiShes his turkey leg, wipes his hand on his shirt and then searches the
distance at the sound of a VOICE--a gruff. babbling voice.
STEVE'S POV:
at the far end of the rough mill road. a short, squat, wizened man in his seventies is
approaching on a froth-flecked BAY MULE, saddled down with an over-abundance of gear.
A.'<DREW "BUCKSHOT' ROBERrS
is square-cut and ruddy. poorly dressed. And as he climbs down from his mule with a
gimp. he looks like a bagman of the Old West. Only instead of bags and rags, he totes
artillery: two rifles. a heavy Sharp's buJTalo blaster. a pair of Remington pistols. and a

55
cartridge belt doubled twice, overloaded. In the relaxed manner of one donning a Jacket. he
dons the accouterments of a one-man anny.
Buckshot means business.
REVERSE ON DIRIY STEVE
hlS eyes widenJng. He drops hiS turkey bone.

INT. BLAZER'S INN
Easton and Blazer look on at the scruffy, hungry bunch. Steve barges In. breathless.
Easton and Blazer Jump, again.
·
DIRIYSTEVE
Mighty well-heeled man lS comln' this way.
A beat.

BREWER

Just one?
Dirty Steve nods. Charley looks out the window, swallows some wine.

CHARLEY

It's ol' Buckshot Roberts.

·

BREWER
Roberts! We got a warrant for him. He was with the
gang.

DOC
He coming to surrender'?
CHARLEY

Hell, don't look that way.
BILLY

He any good?
CHARLEY

They call him Buckshot cuz If ya stood him on hiS
head. ya'd get a pound a half of buck. he's been shot
so many times. The old cuss can only bring a gun to
his hip but he's got that down pretty good. Seen him
dust two fellas In Las Vegas. Or was it Las Cruces?
Billy holds hiS Colt out over the set table and spins the chamber. locking it ready with a
hard SNAP.
BILLY
Introduce us.
And he twirls the gun--forward. backward--into his holster. The two waiters exchange a
scared eye roll.

56
\

I

EXT. BLAZER'S MILL- DAY
Toe boys come out, still eating turkey, wiping their hands on napkins and gazing down the
road at-BUCKSHOT
the CI.ANKING. GRUNTING, walking armoury. Undaunted by the six young guns closing
off the end of the road. he keel?s right on walking, straight at them.
BREWER (O.S)
(chewing turkey)
Got a warrant for you, Roberts. Get 'em up.
BUCKSHOT
(grum
I don't got no business in that war no more. you
pecker-head sonuvabitch! I'm my own man! And right
now I'm here for the one-hunert and fifty dollars Sheriff
Brady's put on The Kid's head. One hunert and ten for
the rest of you.
TI!E REGUIATORS
e.'Cchange glances as they bring their weapons up.
DOC
Sweet disposition on this feller, hmm?
ANGLE ON;
BUCKSHOT
Let's dance.
And Robert's leg suddenly buckles from under him as he lets himself drop to one knee.
throwing up a pair of forty-five caliber rifles. He BLASTS A DOUBLE CHARGE, TWICE.
and as the Mcsween boys OPEN UP on him, he rolls ponderously behind a wooden well
founc\ation. Hts left side reveals three nasty puncture marks but he shakes it off.
THE REGUIATORS
jump for cover behind a collapsed fence. But under the ENDLESS BLASTING from
Roberts. the fence ts splintered and Chavez ts shot through the right side of his chest, near
his collar bone.
Bowdre and Doc jump up and try to move to better cover. A CHARGE knocks Bowdre's
gunbelt off. ricochets and smashes Doc's right hand. knocking the Sharp's from his grip
and taking olihis index finger and thumb. Chavez and Doc's HOWLING MERGE into one
painful wail.
BEHIND TI!E WELL
Roberts, lying on his side. reloads. He feels something at his leg and looks down to see a
throwing knife lmbedded In h!s calf. Wincing, spitting some blood. he begins to crawl
away.
TI!E REGULATORS

57
behind the fence are stunned by the one-man show. Bowdre sits, pulling down his
trousers to see If the shot has clipped his hip. Chavez Is flat-backed and may be dead.
Doc Is on his knees, rocking back and forth.
BILLY AND BREWER
are side by side behind a fallen stone wall keeping Roberts at bay with double-sue guns.
BREWER
(breathless)
He just crawled Into the shltter.
(looks at Billy)
Billy ... go In there. Storm the outhouse and cut him
In two.
Billy looks at Brewer then back out at the unlikely fortress. A VOICE BOOMS forth.
muffied and constricted.
BUCKSHOT (O.S.)
You dirty little sonsabltches! I got Chavez, that's a
hunert and ten!
Billy cocks his Winchester rifle.
BREWER
I'm darln' you, Billy.
Billy sucks his teeth and looks down the line at Dirty Steve who's emptying his shotgun.
Slowly he crawls to a stack of lumber and beglnS weaving through It, Winchester In one
hand, a colt In the other.
IN THE LUMBER
Billy pops his head up to check h!s location and POW! A blast from the Big Fifty knocks a
log In half, Inches from h!s head. He ducks and FIRES and recoils as EIGHT SHOTS ping
off the wood around him, knock h!s hat off and force him to the dirt. He crawls back-BEHIND THE STONE W.AJ.L
where Brewer looks at him questioningly. Billy catches his breath, then turns a look on
the foreman.
BILLY
To hell with m- You do it.
Brewer looks back out at Roberts' fortress. And he swallows.

INT. OUTHOUSE
With one boot up on the shitter and the buffalo rifle sticking through an air ,·ent. Old
Buckshot KEEPS FIRING AND GRUMBLING. Suddenly a SHOTGUN BLAST blows the wall
open and strikes the old rhan in the gut. He stumbles back against the far wall. closes his
eyes for a tight second and GROANS.
And dragging his feet. he's back again--BLASTING away,

58
BEHIND THE FENCE
Dirty Steve draws back hlS shotgun. triumphantly. But then a CHARGE makes him duck.
IN THE LUMBER
Brewer lS crawling, a pJstol In each hand. He takes a seat In the dirt and Ustens. There Is
no more shooting. Only DOC'S CRYING lS heard In the dJstance: "my fingers ... my
fingers .... "
·
Brewer gets up behind a thick. rough plank and slowly llfts his head, eyeing the outhouse.
BREWER'S POV:
In the strange white sunlight of the Ruidoso country, sun spots blur the washed-out image
of the outhouse. and it appears to be In B1ACKAND WHITE. And now, with a HEAVY
BANG, the image jars, SPINS, SWINGS TOWARD THE SUN. LIVE SOUND FADES.
REVERSE ON BREWER'S LEGS
hitting the earth and going stiff. LIVE SOUl'<"D RESID,-!ES.
D!RlY STEVE (O.S.)
DICK!
BILLY
CURSING, punches the wan:
STEVE.

YELLS at the top ofhlS lungs, cocking his gun.
BOWDRE
pulls a boot pistol. stares at the dead foreman In shock.
BUCKSHOT (O.S.)
Ha! 1\vo-hunert and twenty, ya llttle niggers!
ALL THREE
jump the fence. belly down. and··
THE OUTHOUSE
Is pulverized beyond recognition. riddled clear through. dropping splinters, swinging loose
boards. THIRIY SHOTS SILENCE the durable old cuss In the shitter.

BEHIND THE FENCE
Doc rises, kerchief wrapped around hJs disfigured hand. He Is pale and shaking. Chavez
is pulling himself up, gritting his teeth.
DOC
(stammering)
About ten people ran out the back of the chow room.
You know they're going for Brady.

59
ACROSS TI!E FENCE
Bowdre wipes the sweat from his eyes.
CHARLEY

Dick ... sonuvabitch, Dick! We're coming for ya!
DIRIYSTEVE
(breaking)
He's dead, Charley.

CHARLEY
We have to get him!
D!RlYSTEVE
You wanna cross In front of that shithouse again?

S_!lence. And then Charley starts to CRY, dropping his head so no one will see his face.

CHARLEY
Wbat the hell are we gonna do now? Dick's got his
head blowed sky off.
Doc steps over the fence holding his wounded hand. He shrugs, shakes his head. can't
find any helpful words, then almost buckles when he looks at his severed fingers.

CHARLEY
(continuing)
The man was our foreman. Wbere the--what we gonna
do, Doc?
Doc doesn't know. And time Is running out.
BILLY (O.S.)
Regulators!
All eyes flit to-BILLY
sticking his Colt In hlS belt and swinging the Winchester up under his arm. He hurrtes
toward the horses.
BILLY
(continuing)
On your mounts! Charley and Dirty Steve. help
Chavez into the saddle. We ride. Now.
TI!E REGULATORS
watch In silence as Billy Bonney walks briskly to his crow-bait pony, pulls out a pouch of
tobacco from the saddle and carrtes it over to Brewer's tall black mare. He slicks his
tobacco in the mare's saddle then mounts her.
Charley and Steve hurry to Chavez and help him up. Doc follows, dazed.
TI!E OUTI!OUSE

60
sits silent. Perforated. A stark picture of the Range War's devastation.
BUCKSHOT
(grumbllng)
Sllmey sonsabltches ...
And It IS dead quiet again.

EXT. THE VALLEY OF FIRES - WESTERN, NEW MEXICO - DAY
The Regulators ride behind William H. Bonney. high on Dick's, black horse. SCORE KICKS
IN.

Charley and Doc make eye contact, a dubious glance. considering their new leader and
their situation. Dirty Steve keeps shotgun watch while Chavez rides shirtless, a rag tied
around his wound. HIS eyes are closed.

EXT. OLD ANASAZI RUINS
From afar a magnificent ruins, a prehlStoric cl!JI dwelling, towering toward the sky. Layer
upon layer of chlSeled doorways In the sandstone and shale rock. A fire burns up near one
such doorway, a haunting sight.
CLOSER ON RUINS
and The Regulators, now five, sitting around a flI'e In which Charley forks a slab of
snowbird meat. He IS still dazed.
Billy sits away from the others, filing at hlS plStol. Chavez IS right up on the fire letting the
heat warm his wound. He looks bronze In tc-, firelight. Dirty Steve stares at the cooking
snowbird.
·
Doc leaves the circle and goes to hlS horse, adjusting the stirrup length.
BILLY
Where to, Doc?
DOC
Going Into Roswell If It looks safe. Gotta write Dick's
mother In Vermont. Get some clean wraps for this ...
He ralSes the rag-tangled, blood-stained mess of a right hand.
BILLY
Don't go near Lincoln. And, uh, bring back some
playing cards and some chewing gum. Some
cartridges. Number two shot.
Doc looks over at hlS buddies for a time, then mounts.
DOC
See ya'Jl.
And he rides slowly down the ruins.

61
DIRIYSTEVE
(to Billy)
Why you filln' off the trigger guard on your Coll?
Billy sets the gun In Its holster.
BILLY
With the guard gone. I get an eighth of a second drop
on Brady.
Billy draws. FIRES like lightning Into the mouth of a dwelling. DOZENS OF BATS fly out,
SCREECHING. Charley protects his head.
CHARLEY
Dick said we can't touch the SherifJ. You know that,
Billy. Besides, we can't keep this up.
BILLY
Bats sleep all day. The only bird that does that.
Weird.
CHAVEZ
We're not going after Brady. No Murphy men. No
more. I told you I would find the way, didn't I? Well,
the way is West. That's where we go.
BILLY
Woh. woh, woh, hold your horses here, Chavez.
What'd ya see, a, uh. a mosquito fly west or somethln'
and now that's your way? It ain't our way. It wasn't
John's way or he would've run oliwith his tail between
his legs way back. You gotta choose, Chavez. Your
way ... or our way.
Chavez stands up, angry. Red angry. Blood is seeping from his collar wound.
CHAVEZ
Charley? You come with me?
Charley looks up at Chavez, then at Billy, and he seems to be afraid. He looks down at the
blackened snowbird.
CHARLEY
Dirty Steve? You ain't sayin' much.
A long pause. Steve just stares into the fire.
BILLY
He's got nothin' to say, Charley. He understands the
meaning of the word pals.
Charley remains seated. poking at the cooking bird with a stick. After a long moment,
Chavez sits back down.
Billy gets up and moves over to Chavez, silting beside him. He pats the Mexican-Indian on
the back then hands him a tin cup of coffee.

62
EXT. LINCOLN PROPER - NIGHT
And a street torch illuminates Murphy's store. Standing near the front of a bar, Doc leans
on his buffalo gun, keeping a watchful eye and turning toward the wall every time
PEDES'1RIANS pass by. Now his eyes are across the street on-Wortley's Hotel where FOLKS can be seen eating In the garden area by candlelight.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, an old black fiddler. entertains the house.
Several people are leaving, loitering near the adobe e.'Cit arch to say goodbye to the
MANAGER and leave George Washington a tip. When they step out. we might recognize a
few from the fandango--members of The House. dressed handsomely.
District Attorney Pierce steps out and Yen Sun Is with him, spectacularly adorned, her hair
braided and brushing the back of her knees. Three of the politicians walk away with
Lawrence Murphy. and we note that the cattle king has two armed men guarding him
closely. When a GUNSHOT goes off somewhere In the distance, he jumps.
Pierce and his concubine climb up Into a waiting carriage with three other politicians.
THE CARRIAGE
rolls off down the darkened main road, and no one Is aware of the young man in duster
and derby. climbing up onto the rear and Into the wagon until he sticks his fifty caliber
Sharps into Pierce's ribs.
·
DOC
Hallo, District Attorney. Sir. Hidy. ya'll.
Everyone is stunned motionless for a moment, glaring at the wanted man. One of the men
makes a sudden move and Doc wheels on him. aiming the rifle.
DOC
(continuing)
Hallo, Judge Bristol. what ya got in there? A
derringer. Damn. you're ugly. Never seen you up
close. but you are ugly, Sir.
Bristol, a hog-lipped man of four hundred pounds. smiles bitterly Into Doc's face.
BRISTOL
You have the audacity of another man I knew. an
English fellow. And look what happened to him. You
are a foolish youth. and you're going to see the ~ in
your youth, Scurlock.
Doc climbs up front with the ORNER.
DOC
All these corrupt politician-types are gonna be gettln'
off at Montana's. And so are you. Friend.
DRIVER
I'm afraid you got so say In the matter, Son.
Doc COCKS HIS RJFLE.

63
DOC
'Fraid I do.
Yen rolls her eyes neivously.
AT THE NEXT CORNER

the Driver steps down looking around for help, but careful not to rile the hlghjacker. Pierce
takes Yen's arm.
PIERCE!
The lady Is coming with us.

Doc alms the gun at Pierce.
DOC
Goodnight, Mr. Pierce.
Pierce releases her arm. Doc pats the front seat and she cautiously climbs up beside him,
looking back at Pierce.
BRISTOL
Brady's going to bury you. All of you. And if not him,
John Kinney. You're In a war, boy.
DOC
You look very familiar, Judge. You related to the hogs
Juan Padrone raises down on the Rio Feliz?
Doc adjusts the grip on the reins, having trouble with his bandaged right hand.
DOC
The carriage will be returned with the young lady. I
just want to talk to her.
And with the big rifle trained on the men, Doc rides sideways, guiding the carriage into the
darkness.
DOC
Adlos.
Yen looks back neivously at her guardian.

EXT. ANASAZI RUINS - NIGHT
It Is black up In the ruins; a FULL MOON the only light source. The boys are strewn about
on blankets.
CHARLEY
Billy. I seen you do somethln' when you went in afier
ol' Buckshot.
(a long beat)
I seen ya cross yourself real quick.
BILLY
No you didn't.

64
CHARLEY
Yes I did.
DIRIYSTEVE
You believe In God, Billy?

Another long beat.
BILLY
Well, like I believe In not weartng anything yellow. But
one time before a shooting match for a horse--and I
wanted that horse very much--! prayed. And I lost the
match. So there.
CHAVEZ
God doesn't work like that.

CHARLEY
Well, you got a Zuni god, that's different. Or, do you
got a Mexo god? How the hell does that work?
CHAVEZ

One God.
DIRIYSTEVE
Bullshit, Chavez. Your kind wants everythin' we got,
now ya want our God, too.

"

BILLY
Don't cuss when ya talk about god, he'll probably set
John Kinney down right here In our faces.
CHARLEY
I thought ya didn't believe in no God.
BILLY
I don't. But If you '11 take a look, I'm not wearing
anything yellow neither.

A beat.
CHARLEY
(stammering)
Doc's been gone all night. I have a feelln' he's gonna
run for It.
BILLY
Doc? Nah. Doc likes me.

CUT TO:

EXT. BRUSH LAND OFF THE CARRIAGE ROAD - NIGHT
CLOSE ON:
DOC
I can't stand him.

65 .
Yen sits by his side looking out at the mesas Ignited by the same crazy moon over The
Regulators In the valley. It Is a quiet night and they are safely parked.
DOC
It's just that he gets one thing on his mind and ya can't
change It. He ain't afraid of nothln'. And that can be
dangerous.

YEN
Mr. Jack says you've been chasing me because you
want to force me to lay ,vith you. And then cut me Into
little pieces with a knife.

DOC
Do you believe that. Yen? Do you believe Mr. Jack Is a
good man?
A silent moment. Yen looks away ... then at Doc She lowers her eyes.

YEN

In China. girls are not necessary. When we have
floods. fathers let the girl babies wash by. Mr. Jack
has made me necessary.
DOC
He's made you a slave. Yen. That ain't necessary.
Necessary Is something you can't do without.
Doc turns sideways In the carriage to face the little girl.
DOC
(continuing)
You're necessary to me, Yen. Cos I feel something for
ya. I felt it when we danced, and I felt it when I heard
about what they've done to you.
Yen looks at Doc, beginning to trust him, to hear him out. To even like him. The wind
moves through his hair and hers, and stirs the horses a bit.

YEN
(nearly breaking)
I am unclean. That's not for a young man.
DOC
Yen. I've killed four men In the last four weeks--not
that they didn't need kil!ln'--but death leaves a stink
on ya ... that stays with ya ... so I ain't spit-shined
and monastery white. But If I learned one thing from
Mr. John Tunstall, that's that we can change our luck.
I'm ready to change mine, Yen.
Yen looks at the first white man to show respect and kindness toward her; younger than
The House men, and handsome, he seems to be having an effect on her that contradicts
her customs. She looks worried. And after a moment, she bows her head In shame.

66
YEN
I keep your offering of flowers In a room inside my
head. I smell them often. Sometimes you come to the
room and ask me to dance.
Doc slowly brings a hand to her chin and lifts her head. He brings his face toward
hers--maklng her small eyes wlden--and he touches his lips gently to hers.
DOC
(an explanatory whisper)
Necessary.
YEN
I am honored.
DOC
We can get the train In Roswell and be In New York In
four days.
FROM TI!E BRUSH
TI!REE HORSEMEN rtde up slowly. And they are gruesome. Nomad bounty men wearing
Indian buckskins, trapper's skin hats. Goat chaps. Strange mercenary head-hunters of
the Old West. Together, they each hit the BREAK ACTION on their rtfies.
IN TI!E CARRIAGE
Doc wheels.
YEN
Who ls it?

Doc cracks the horses on.
DOC
Fans of mine. I'm sure.
Doc's stolen horses clump through the chaparral as RIFLE SHOTS lip through the air and
around his and Yen's heads.
DOC
[continuing)
Get down, Yen!
Yen lowers her head--chln to neck. Doc pushes her down all the way.
LONG SHOT - TI!E CHASE - SUNRISE
over rough trails and brush and cottonwood clumps as Doc CRACKS TI!E WHIP, YELLING,
looking over his shoulder. SEVERAL POWDER CHARGES ignite the blackness.
DOC
Yen! Take the reins!
As soon as Yen sits up and feels the leather straps shoved Into her tiny hands, Doc swings

himself behind her. placing his back against hers. He puts his specs on, then aims his
bu!Talo gun and it Is difficult trying to fire without his finger. But he does. BOOOM!

67
And Yen Is taking some wild turns, just missing trees and soaring down blu!Ts, and her
eyes are closed tight. She SCREAMS after each gun blast, a series of short. sharp screams.
like a fox kit.
ONE OF THE RIDERS
Is hit by Doc's heavy artillery and loses some arm but he stays on, HOWLING, riding low.
A SECOND RIDER Is spun right out of his saddle.

ON THE CARRIAGE
Doc, in an awkward squat, tries desperately to take straight aim. He CURSES as he
continues to miss the wounded scalp hunter who Is almost on them. He tries reloading
against the hair-pin turns Yen throws them into.
And now the assassin Is only a few feet away, dazed but determined, and setting up for a
certain point blank shot.
Doc can't get the ball in the gun. Yen emits a STACCATO SCREA.1\1. The scalp hunter
cocks back the hammer. And WHAAAM! Doc brings the stock of the big gun up and hits
him in the Jaw, knocking him oiT the horse.
But now THREE MORE BOUNTY HUNTERS come into view, FIRING without any
consideration for the lady. Doc pivots toward his girl.
DOC
Yen! I want you to keep riding till you come to the first
village! Ask them how to get to La Juarez at the
border! Go there and wait for me! If I don't show up,
ask the Mexicans to find a man named Alec Mc--

YEN
(crying)
--no, Doc. I go to Lincoln. To my guardian.,
DOC
No, Yen!
A GUNSHOT hits the carnage. Yen SCREAMS. Doc turns. And jumps.
IN THE BRUSH
Doc rolls, getting to one knee and BLASTING. One man goes down. He swings the gun
right, and it Is uncanny the way he can aim and hit dead-on. He FIRES and a second rider
goes down. Now he FIRES NUMBER THREE, and-THE THIRD RIDER
is missed. but his horse is killed. The horse nosedives and the bounty man sails over his
head, sliding through the sand and coming to an unarmed stop only several feet from the
bu!Talo gunner. Doc stares at him and the man looks up, petrified.
DOC
Was it worth it? You thought you were gonna be
drinking up a hundred and ten dollars at Wortley's
t'nlght and. instead, look where you are. Vulture-bait.

68
Toe man collapses and lies still. Doc glares at him for a moment. then turns, searching for
Yen. She Is gone. Toe desert Is silent.
DOC
Shit.
Behind him, the grounded bounty man slowly comes to life, reaching for his leg and pulling
a long-barrelled pistol from a tied bandanna. Doc wheels. throws up the buffalo with one
hand and FIRES. He Is hit with the bounty man's blood--a thin spray across the face. his
glasses. He looks sick. just standing there for a moment, then slowly wiping it off.
DOC
(again)
Shit.
In a dazed, downtrodden gait, he starts across the sands.

EXT. ANASAZI RUINS - DAY
Doc rides up the steep layers of clilT dwelling, filthy and exhausted and favoring his
bandaged hand, soaked red.
Billy Is rubbing Sloan's Linament on his horse's legs when he looks up and spots Doc. He
grins.

BILLY
Hey, Dirty Steve? Steve?
Steve looks up from where he stands, taking a leak.
BILLY
I told ya--what did I tell ya? About Doc? He's back.
Doc rides up to Billy and hands him a pack of playing cards. ·Some chewing gum.
Cartridges. Billy pats his leg.
BILLY
(continuing)
Regulators! Saddle up, let's ride.
Doc remains on his horse looking down over the valley. Charley, Steve and Chavez , each,
mount, GREETING Doc. Billy walks over and picks up his Winchester rifle. He then
places his boot pistol down his leg. He checks his duel colts, draws one and loads it.
Waxes his holster.
BILLY
(continuing: sing-song nasal)
ShertffBraaaaa-dy. We're gonna have a lot of fun now.

EXT. LINCOLN PLAZA- DAY
It Is a bright spring afternoon down on the main street. and a CROWD is gathered: what
seems to be most of the town.
y

69
A buckboard is set up before the ShertiTs olTice, and Brady stands on the make-shift
platform sans podium, addressing the townfolk. Standing a few steps from him is DEPUTY
SHERIFF DAD PEPPIN. On his other side stand gloomy-faced associates J. HINDMAN and
JOHN LONG.·
BRADY
(speaking loudly)
There is no word that truthfully describes what iS going
on here in Lincoln, but "anarchy." We have on our
hands a roving pack of weasels--so-called
constables--murder!ng men left and right. I know that
some of you--! know a few of you by name--are
mistaking this band for honest lawmen. Well, you are
wrong.
Brady points a finger Into the crowd and prepares to continue h!s speech. But suddenly a
BUZZ SPREADS through the crowd ... some LAUG!-frER ... A SCREAl\1 OF
WARNING ...
Brady looks puzzled, like a man who doesn't know there's confetti hanging from his hair.
Dad Peppin and Hindman look baffied, glance over at the sherilT and go white at the sight
of-BILLY BONNEY
standing on the platform right behind Brady, mocking h!s politician's gestures.
BILLY
(to the lawmen)
Hi, Girls!
And in a lightning strike, he raises his .41 and shoots Brady in the back pf the head before
the man can even tum.
As the deputy and his two back-up men draw, a RIFLE SHITT rips apart Hindman's chest

and throws htm into the SCREAMING CROWD like a raw slab of beef.
ONA ROOFTOP
Doc takes atm again.
ON THE PLATFORM
Peppin, Matthews, and Long dive for cover as the hidden regulators fire on the stage.
Matthews catches a throwing knife in the back.
Billy turns and hurries down off the platform as he is FIRED ON, but he seems to
remember something and hurries back to Brady, who Iles on his back dying.
Billy stoops and clatms Brady's ril1e--a beauty. Brady looks up at The Kid, glassy-eyed.
BILLY
Reap the whirlwind. Brady.
But a POWDER BALL lips through Billy's thigh, passing clean without scraping the bone.
Billy does a little dance of pain as he lays the rifle barrel to Brady's head. Brady stares up
at him, abhorred.

70
BILLY
(continuing)
Reap It.
He pulls the trigger--POP!--just as we:

CUI'TO:
POP! A COLLODION CAMERA going o!Twlth a puff of smoke, and-A TIN-'IYPE PHOTOGRAPHIC IMAGE
of William H. Bonney posing with his new rille. (Th!s Is the f~mous Billy The Kid Un-type,
one of two surviving photos.)
ASA BUDBILL.

a small. nervous picture-taker. retracts h!s head from under a tripod tent and hustles to go
about the mad rush of steps required to make a photograph In 1878.
A CROWD looks on. curious. out In front of a saloon ln--

FORr SUMNER. NEW MEXICO
where Billy maintains h!s pose. grinning like a ham at the rest of the boys who look on with
the crowd. A name ls cireulatlng In HUSHED WHISPERS through the crowd. the street,
the saloon. And it ls the moniker "Billy The Kid. it's Billy The Kid, It's ...

EXT. CHISUM'S CAMP - PECOS VALLEY - LATE DAY
CLOSE ON PHOTOGRAPH OF WILLIAM H. BONNEY as It IS handed to-Alex Mcsween by Billy himself. Both men are lit by one of New Mexico's stranger sunsets,
which casts a pink light over a cow camp tucked away between green bluffs. A river runs
by pitched wagons where several COWPUNCHERS walk about lazily.
In front of one such wagon Mcsween sits by the fire, a blanket wrapped around him and a
bad wheeze in his lungs. He hands the photograph back up to Billy, who stands with h!s
boys. The Kid has a purple silk scarf threaded through h!s thigh wound and hanging.
BILLY
It's for you. Alex.
Alex Ignores the photograph. And he looks angry.
MCSWEEN
You weren't supposed to touch Brady. He was the
sherl.lI, for Christ's sake.
The boys stand around the campfire, dirty and tired and gorging themselves with rolls and
bacon. Billy limps a few steps.
BILLY
Brady was behind it all. It's a good move for us. Very
good.

71
MCSWEEN
Was it. Billy? Have you read The Independent?
All eyes move around to each other. to Mcsween. to Susan coming out from a wagon, pale
and tired and carrying water.
MCSWEEN
(continuing)
Governor Axtell's pulled your deput!zat!on powers.
You're now as wanted by the legitimate law as you are
by those outside the law.
The boys look stunned.
MCSWEEN
(continuing)
You're not only being hunted by John Kinney and the
Seven Rivers Bunch, you're being hunted by troops.
Fort Stanton. The United States.
Mcsween gathers the paper from behind him. offers it in a mess to Billy.
MCSWEEN
(continuing)
Governor's put a two-hundred dollar purse on your
head. Billy. They're after you.
Mcsween rises. COUGHING. He turns his back on the boys. shivers against the chill.
Susan hands him some medicine and he swigs it.
MCSWEEN
(continuing)
You were supposed to bring eleven men in to jail and
help us win this war. Instead. you've gone on a bloody
rampage. Richard's been killed. What are you trying
to do. B!lly?
B!lly doesn't answer and Mcsween wheels. angry.
MCSWEEN
(continuing)
Hahl?
SUSAN
Ale.'<:! He's hurt.
BILLY
What am I trying to do?
Billy limps around the fire, folding his arms, pondering.
BILLY
I don't know. Maybe I'm trying to get Rutherford B.
Hayes to look this way. They're going to let Murphy
(MORE)

72
BILLY (CONTD)
and Dolan get away with whateYer they want, but they
won't let me. I'm gonna keep running through this
terrttory, and I'm gonna keep smoking those bastards
to their graves. The more troops they call in, the more
forces, the more news stories they write. the more the
President's gonna have to look this way, and he's
gonna find out what's really going on. Who's really
been killing who.
Alex stares across the flame at the kid. just twenty years old. Doc looks into the fire and
nods. hearing this for the first time but obviously agreeing. Charley clears his throat.
CHARLEY

What are :lQl! gonna do, Alex? Keep hiding?
MCSWEEN
No. I've had It \Vith hiding. My home's still in Lincoln.
My business. And I promised John I'd keep the store
going no matter what.
DOC
You're not going back to Lincoln.
MCSWEEN
Yes. I am, Doc.
BILLY
Well, we'll have to ride with you.

,.

MCSWEEN
Billy, you'd be certain death to us. To anybody.
BILLY
When are you going to Lincoln?
MCSWEEN
As soon as things settle a bit.

Billy walks up to Mcsween slowly. The attorney looks frightened for a moment.
BILLY
Alex ... you didn't see what they did to John. I did.
Billy offers the photograph again. Mcsween looks away. his eyes misting.
MCSWEEN
Billy ...
Billy takes another few steps over to Susan. He o!Ters It to her and she takes it, doing her
best to smile.

SUSAN
Thank you, Billy. Please go to Old Me.'<ico. We care
about you boys. Please.
Billy looks at her for a time, then turns lo the fire. He removes his special deputy's badge
from his jacket and drops It in the flame. Dirty Steve follows suit and starts follow,ing Billy

73
downriver. but Susan stops him. touching him on the shoulder. He looks Into her eyes
nervously.
SUSAN
(continuing)
Please take care of yourself.
And she touches his hat. Dirty Steve lowers his head and continues following Bonney.
Chavez removes the badge and drops It In the fire and joins the procession.
Charley takes a while. Then tears the badge off.
CHARLEY
There goes my neck.
And he drops It In the fire. He ambles away, his trousers backsliding.
Doc removes his badge. starts to drop It. then pockets It. Mcsween ls up on him,
cornering him.
MCSWEEN
Christ. Doc ... what happened?
DOC
It's a whirlwind all right. Ya get caught inSlde it.
and ... damn ...
(clearing a frog in his throat)
Alex? Ale.'C, remember that pretty little China doll at
the fandang? The House girl?
Alex nods tentatively.
DOC
(continuing)
ls there any way--as a lawyer--that you can' ... we
can ...
Alex shakes his head.
MCSWEEN
I'm sorry. I don't have enough ground to stand on
anymore. Doc. I mean It.
About twenty yards downriver. Billy CRACKS THE BREAK on his Winchester and the
sound seems to echo up Mcsween's spine. And perhaps Doc's too. Doc looks after Billy,
nods goodbye to Alex and Susan. and follows Billy The Kid downriver. his bandaged right
hand hanging tenderly at his side.

EXT. SMALL VILLAGE - NEW MEXICO/MEXICO BORDER - DAY
An adobe archway leads Into a small. clean Mexican village where close to TWO HUNDRED
VILLAGERS. Mexican-Americans. spill out in the entrance way. a sea of bright color
beholding the arrival of Billy The Kid and his tired guns. Slowly, they ride through the
arch. Historical date and place fade in:

74
MAYlO
JUAREZ, NEW MEXICO

Just under MEXICAN TRADmONAL MUSIC, a CHORUS OF CHANTS rises up from the
people.
VILLAGERS
El Chi-va-to! El Chi-va-to! El Chi-va-to!
Billy rides In, scanning dark faces, considering the near deification. And now with the
Mexican chant for 'Toe Kid" ringing In his ears, he looks like he may be taking this very
seriously.
VILLAGERS
El Ch!-va-to!
MEXICAN MAN
You are hero! You are for the people! For New Mexico.
Billy looks down at the man. then throws an arm high In the air, clutching Brady's Iifle.
the VILLAGERS ROAR. . Everyone reaches for him. trying to touch him; old women bless
him.
The other boys ride behind him, amazed.
HOURS LATER - IN THE VII,.LAGE - NIGHT
A fire bums high. CHILDREN run about with the GOATS. Chavez throws knives for the
people. smiling at the APPLAUSE.
Charley sits alone with MANUELA. a pretty villager. He speaks shyly, and she clings to
every word.

INT. AN ADOBE HUT
Billy sits In a bathtub, soaking his wound. smoking a big cigar. He is dictating a letter to
Doc, who sits by a candle near the door writing with quill on letter paper.
BILLY
Dear Governor A"<tell. I have heard that you wlll give
two hundred dollars for my body. Perhaps we should
meet and talk. some safe place like the house of Old
Squire Wilson. Send your men to escort me. I am at
the Juarez Village. Send three and instruct them not
to shoot. as I am unarmed.
(draws on his cigar)
I will meet you at Wilson's house and discuss any
arrangements to make things easier. That is--perhaps
arrangements can be made to call dogs off one A A
Mcsween. In short. sir, I surrender. Your obedient
servant, William H. Bonney.
Doc casts an eye up, surprised. He writes it down.
BILLY
P.S. I have changed my mind. Kiss my ass.

75
Doc smiles and shakes his head. finishing the letter.
Suddenly the door bangs open, Dtrty Steve nearly falls In, breathle·ss. Billy has a pistol on
him.
DIR1YSTEVE
John Kinney.
Billy flies out of the tub. Doc leaps to his feet, runs out the door.

EXT. VILLAGE - NIGHT
Chaos. Villagers run about SCREAMING as JOHN KINNEY and his DONAA:'\'A BUNCH
ride In, rifles high. Kinney Is a brutal-looking outlaw with long black hair that rides his
shoulders, and a beard that unfolds to his navel. He Is a rail-thin man. with pock-marked
face and bad front teeth. His men--forty of them--aren't :;my friendlier looking.
The OLD MA."< OF THE V1LLAGE walks up to Kinney. who nearly tramples him with his
massive sorrel.
KINNEY
We know they're here, Old Man. Invite us to the fiesta.
Where are they? ·
OLD MAN
El Ch!vato. He was here. No more. To Old Mexico. he
go. Far away.
KINNEY
Yeah? You feed 'em?
The Old Man shakes his head no. Kinney motions toward the .huts and his boys ride
forward at an aggressive pace. When Kinney rides past, the Old Man looks up toward-THE ADOBE ARCH
where The Regulators sit on their horses. motionless. Not even breathing.
THE OLDMAN
touches his hat and-THE REGULATORS
race down the sloping arch and out toward freedom. Doc waves goodbye to the silent
crowd.
IN THE V1LLAGE
Kinney comes from a hut and does a take. getting an idea of what just went down. He
SHOUTS to his men, rides up to the Old Man who Is walking quickly toward his hut.
The Dona Ana Bunch THUNDERS PAST the Old Man toward the-arch. FIRING their rilles.
trying to catch The KID. Kinney stops his horse short so as to eye the Old ~1an of the
,·il!age.

76
KINNEY
(tense)
Old Man .... you may have cost me six hundred
dollars. I'm gonna ...
(begtns to quake. to sweat like he's got
goddamned malaria or something)
--I'm gonna kill you. Then I'm gonna kill El Chivato.
Then I am coming back to shove thlS-(re: plStol)
--up your daughter's ass.
He shoots the Old Man dead.

EXT.ALBUQUERQUE-DAYSLATER
An HERMAPHRODITE--an intricate compromise of man. woman. thing. And it IS standing
on a small wood pedestal wearing a silk kimono.
Slowly it opens the kimono and reveals a strange blend ofilesh. PULL BACK ON-A CROWD gathering at the side of the road to see the exhibit. Most SCREAM. Others
LAUGH. Billy Toe Kid Just grins simply. studying the person. Dirty Steve approaches him.
DIRIYSTEVE
Hey. Billy. You'd better-(he looks at the exhibit)
--what in the hell IS that?
A SHOWMAN steps up on the platform with hlS thing.
SHOWMA.l'I
That. son, ls man. It is woman. It is the wonder known as
morphrod!te.
BILLY
What ya want. Stevens?
DIRIYSTEVE
Charley. You better come see him.
Billy looks over hlS shoulder toward the row of shops.

EXT. ALLEY - BETWEEN SALOON AND BLACKSMITH SHOP - DAY
Charley sits on a fence post. trembling. Sweating. Billy, Steve. Doc, and Chavez stand
around him.
CHARLEY
(stammering)
I read. Billy. I read it.
DOC
He Just read about the party that new Sherill Peppin
plans to give us.

77
BILLY
Party? You mean The Hangln'?
CHAVEZ
Shhh.

CHARLEY
(starting to break)
Damn, Billy, you ever see a man hanged? His face
goes flat purple an' his eyes come up on him.
BILLY
Yep. Seen Red Smitty's head come right off. What a
sight that-DOC
--Billy, Charley don't wanna hear about Red Smitty.
He wants to hear you say we're not gonna hang.

CHARLEY
Ya mess your trousers, they say. Gals watchln' and
everythin'.
BILLY
Ifwe get caught, we're gonna hang, Charley. But
there's many a slip twi.--rt the cup and the lip ..
Billy grins at Doc In self-approval.

.CHARLEY
We gotta do somethin' before they catch us. You gotta
let me do somethin'.
Billy looks down at Charley, patiently.

EXT. ADOBE WHOREHOUSE - FORT SUMNER, NEW MEXICO - DAY
The Regulators ride up to the ramshackle home set beside Keller's Saloon. They stare at
the place.
DIRITSTEVE
Damn, Charley, that's your last wish? To get your
carrot whet? Could'a done that back in Albuquerque.
DOC
There's such a thing as special women, Dirt Face.
someday you 'II find that out.
BILLY
Throw in your money for Bowdre. Charley, we'll be
hidin' out in the saloon. Don't take too long.
Charley collects the coins and pockets them, nodding sheepishly. The others begin
hitching their mounts to a street rail.

78
INT. BROTHEL ROOM
MALLORY. an attractive but worn whore. pushing forty. sits In the comer of the room on a
chair at a makeup table. She draws on a thin black cigarette, her bloodshot eyes taking In
the form of the young man standing before her, hat in hand. Charley snills at the opiumfogged air.
MALLORY
What's your name?

CHARLEY
Charley.
MALLORY
Well, Charley. I don't remember you, but I guess you
remember me. Ya know, I meet so many young men
out for the first. You know how it Is.

CHARLEY
Sure.
Mallory puts her cigarette out and lifts a knee dantily, beginning to strip off a stocking.
Her eyes smile on Charley.

CHARLEY
(continuing)
Just wanna hold you, ma'am.
Mallory goes still. Then pulls the stocking back up. She sits back and studies him.
MALLORY
Whatever your pleasure, Charley. But it all costs the
same.
Charley walks over to the bed, sits. Mallory sits beside him, looking him sweetly in the
face. He lowers his head.

INT. KELLER'S SALOON - DAY
A BANJO MAN picks grass from a comer chair while PATRONS drink booze and play monte
and stare vacantly through THICK SMOKE at the huge painting of Fatima. the pot-bellied
dance-house pigeon.
At a back table, Billy, Doc, Dirty Steve and Chavez play monte while they wait for Charley
to come down from the brothel. The boys have been knocking back a few and they're full of
LAUGI-ITER and TALK.

INT. FORT SUMNER BROTHEL - DAY
Charley ls sitting on the bed beside Mallory who is hµgg!ng him.
MALLORY
Maybe next lime, Charley Boy. Maybe you'll--

79
CHARLEY
--I'm goln' to the gallows, Ma'am.
Mallory stops rocking the young man for a moment, considers the announcement, then
rocks again.
MALLORY
You're so young ...
CHARLEY
That don't matter.
MALLORY
Okay, Charley. ·rm holdin' you ... I'm lov!n' you.

,

Tears run thin down charley's wind-burned cheek.

INT. KELLER'S SALOON
"TEXAS" JOE GRANT, forty, stands up at the bar, a boot planted on the rail, a hand
wrapped around a glass of bourbon. He is a tawny, blue-eyed man, well-groomed, and
proud of the awesome Colt Peacemaker with pearl handle glinting at his right hip.
GRANT
When I cover this much ground, you better bet your
last dollar that I'll get the Job done. If Billy The Kid is
In town, he's as good as in the grave, and I'm tellin'
ya'll plain as day.
The BARTENDER fills his glass again while Billy mosies up to the bar, takes a stand beside
the gunman.
BILLY
Hallo there.
GRANT
I were you, Son, I'd be out of the way.
BILLY
You really gonna shoot Billy The Kid?
GRANT
Is the sun gonna rise tomorrow?
Billy GIGGLES, studies the man's fancy garb.
BILLY
That the gun you gonna kill him With?
Grant ignores the punk.
GRANT
Barkeep? Another glass of tonsil varnish here.
BILLY
Can I touch it?

80

(

The Barkeep frowns, turns away.

INT. FORT SUMNER BROTHEL
Charley looks warm in Mallory's arms.
MALLORY
Your time Is up, Charley. Do you feel better?
Charley nods. takes a manly breath. He pays Mallory five dollars In gold and fi.'Ces his
gunbelt before a mirror.
MALLORY
(continuing)
Charley. Man I married, his name was Charley. too.
CHARLEY
I thank you for your kindness. Ma 'am. Now I gotta go
hang.
Mallory's tired eyes follow him to the door. She's beginning to look troubled.
MALLORY
Boy? How do you know me? Who are you?
Charley stops at the door, barely turns toward her. He Is having trouble coming out with
it, getting his tongue around the words.
,.

CHARLEY
I'm Billy The Kid.

Mallory tilts her head quizzically. brings a cuticle to her teeth.
MALLORY
My God ...
And Charley walks out, opening the door and letting In a dust-necked path of light that
makes Mallory look like a skeleton.

INT. KELLER'S SALOON
Grant SNORTS. eyes the sniveling kid.
BILLY

(continuing)
I admire you. Sir. And if I can touch the gun that's
gonna kill Billy The Kid ... aw ...
Grant draws the gun, twirls lt--everybody jumps. He then teases the young man's hands
with it.
GRANf

You know iron?
Billy nods. Grant places it in his palm.

81
GRANT
(continuing)
Take a look at her. then pass it back. That gun killed
Ed Rollins.
Billy looks at the gun, turns it over in his small hands.

GRANT
(continuing)
Barkeep! A round of white mule for every lady in the
house.
Billy quickly and carefully opens the chamber of the gun to check out the mechanics. He
rolls the chamber. examines two empty cartridges.

GRANT
(continuing)
Pass her back. Son. You stoke another man's gun like
that you might as well be strokln' his woman. Pass her
up.
Billy hands the gun back. grinning simply.

GRANT
(continuing)
Okay. Out of the way 'fore ya.get hurt.
BILLY
One more question?

GRANT
No.
BILLY
I'm leavin' now. and I'd like to know what to·look for in
case I see him. so I can tell ya.
Grant stares hard at Billy. then looks away toward SOME WOMEN who GIGGLE gratefully
over the purchased drinks. Grant turns back to Billy. his eyes shimmering with liquor.
GRANT
Good-lookln' kid, way with women. Dresses like a
dandy and he's a left-hander. They also say he's fond
of whistlin' sad ballads.
(he drinks)
Now you go out in the street, and if you see anybody
comin' who fits that bill. you come whisperin' to me.
BILLY
Okay.

GRANT
Goodbye.
BILLY
I see him.

82
Grant cocks a brow. Looks over his shoulder where the kid may have spotted someone In
the mirror.
BIILY
(pointing to mirror)
·
Right there. See him?
Grant squints In the mirror, figures It out.
GRANT

That so now? Boy ... I don't have time for your wise
lip. Go take a walk 'fore I drop your britches in front of
all these ladles and spank your ass blue.
Billy stares at him in the eye, and then, slowly, gradually, puckers his ·lips and begins
WHISTilNG "Silver Threads Among the Gold." Grant grows increasingly put err.
GRANT

You're a testy little cus, ain't-But Grant is quickly aware of the Bartender clearing out, moving as many bottles as he
can; patrons leave the bar; and all the while, Billy keeps whistling oIT-key, his pucker
bowed in a wise-acre smirk.
It all registers. Grant draws his fancy Colt, and has it point blank at Toe Kid's forehead.
CLICK. AGAIN. CLICK. And in the light speed moment between clicks, Billy Bonney
raises his pistol and FIRES" Into Joe Grant's throat. Charley has just entered the bar and
he jumps a foot.
Grant Is slammed into the wall. He drops. SILENCE falls over the smoke-filled room.
BIILY
What's that make, Doc? twenty-five?
Sitting at the table, Doc raises five fingers on one hand and two on the other to indicate
seven dead men. Billy scoffs.
BIILY
That's horseshlt.
He turns and picks up a glass of white mule, sips It. Every soul in the room is frozen still,
eyes on Billy. Toe Kid turns a look on the Bartender.
BILLY
(continuing)
Call It ten even.
Toe Bartender nods in Instant agreement and the BANJO MAN begins a wild number.
CHEERS and HOOTS and LAUGHTER break the tension.
NEAR THE DOOR
Charley slowly relaxes, letting the wall support him as he leans back SIGHING deeply with
loose horse lips.

83
EXT. CARRIAGE ROAD TO LINCOLN - DAY
Billy, on his mare, leads The Regulators onward.
DIR1YSTEVE
Like Doc says, a special woman, hmm? You get that
ol' carrot whet? The silver sword polished? She go for
It, Charley? Who was she anyway?
A beat.
CHARLEY
My mother.
Steve flinches, looks away. Keeps riding. And no one presses It further.
DOWN THE ROAD
just behind a wagon loaded with bags of flour. John Kinney and the dona
Ana Bunch sit on their mounts in dead silence.
A SALESMA..'l". fussing with the load of flour. looks at Kinney and nods once.

KINNEY
Massacre the bastards.
UP THE ROAD

The Regulators ride forth until Chavez stops his horse. The others stop. Turn to face the
knifeman. Chavez seems to be scanning some supernatural terror on the skyline.
POV:
Ktnney and the bunch stampeding forward, and there are so many of them squeezed
together--a virtual army--that they can't all fit in the wide dirt road.
REVERSE ON THE REGULATORS
taking this in. Badly.
CHARLEY
Oh shit.
And they throw their mounts around, racing back toward Keller's saloon and the brothel.
SCORE INTERLUDE - THE CHASE
and Kinney and The Bunch are riding for the kill, professional depopulators with pride on
the line. They are getting closer to the five young guns who leave Fort Sumner behind and
take to the open sands.
BETWEEN MESAS AND BUTTES
the hunters and the hunted weave and hurdle ...
UP A.'\/D THROUGH PUEBLO RUINS

84
The chase narrows, and Kinney's boys are FIRING, ducking RETURN FIRE. Kinney
himself, takes aim ,v1th a long rifle and BLASTS on the run, black chaw running down his
chin.
The Regulators are sweat-soaked, filthy, pushing their tired horses on. But then comes a
sight that stops them all dead.
ACRES OF MESQUITE JUNGLE
thick and nasty switch trees: thousands of them, each bearing thousands of jagged thorns.
PANNING IBE DISTANCE of this jungle. we see that there is also coma--trees with dirk-like
thorns three inches long: cat's claw, Spanish dagger. prickly pear, Devil's head--all the
worst flesh-tearing thorns and limbs in the Southwest growing in one spread. as far as the
eye can see.
IBE REGULATORS
scan the impenetrable devil's bed while only a hundred yards to their backs. Kinney and
his men close in, FIRING. WHOOPING.
CHAVEZ
(Me:dcan word for this jungle)
Brasada.
Chavez lies out over his saddle, slinks low to the side of his horse.
CHAVEZ
Stay low like the horse and run her as fast as she'll go.
Let her take you. It's going to hurt.
DIRrYSTEVE
(looking over his shoulder)
Who the hell cares, let's go!!
Chavez slaps hiS horse's flank and he is rocketed into the brasada at top speed. Behind is
Steve, riding Indian style, and Charley trying the same--his butt way up high--while doc
and Billy torpedo in last. instantly losing their hats.
POV - ROCKETING IBROUGH BRASADA
or "popping brush," the Mexican and more serious cowpuncher's technique for getting
through the cat's claw jungle that can eat a man and his horse.
CAMERA MOVES HEADLONG into Spanish dagger, SWERVES out of the way of a thorned
Mesquite limb--the boys are HOWLING.
KINNEY AND IBE BUNCH
smash into the brasada ,vithout a pause. and they make the mistake of riding high--no
. Indians among them--and getting the sudden surpriSe of a million dirk-thorns clmving into
their legs and arms and shoulders. Their horses buck. throw a few men. but Kinney keeps
on, gritting his teeth, aiming his long rille with one hand, BLASTING.
IBE REGULATORS
HOWLING ... running a race with thorns as handicaps and every step a
hurdle ... HOWLING .... and Steve's horse goes cold-jawed, tricked by the maze. throws
him. He goes down, SL'< or seven Spanish dagger going through him. Charley grabs his

85
arm. yanks him up. he makes It on Doc's horse. watching his own mount run crazy
someplace else.
And forty men fight brasada. following, SHOOTING.
WHERE TI:!E BRASADA ENDS
foothills begin. and Chavez emerges with only one long scratch down his arm. Billy pops
out next in another place. his cheeks scratched. Jacket frazzled. Charley smashes out,
bloodied. the seat of his pants r1pped r1ght off.
And no one waits around to see If Doc makes it out but he does. Dirty Steve hugging him.
holding on. and both men still HOWLING. They storm up In the hills and vanish.
IN TI:!E BRASADA
· Kinney and The Bunch struggle fonvard. CURSING and ARGUING and restraining coldJawed mounts.
Kinney looks out toward the r1slng bluffs and contorts his pockmarked face. When he
parts his lips. chaw spills from those bad teeth.
KINNEY
I'm on you. Bonney! I'm on you!
And he fights forward. a thorn-dagger piercing his shoulder. He tears himself free. his
black eyes fLxed crazily on the distance. long rifle held high and smoking.

EXT. HOT SPRINGS - OJO CALIENTE - DAY
STEAM rolls ponderously off of several hot pools. MOVING TI:!ROUGH the steam, we find
charley on his knees. his trousers down around his boots and his bottom in the air,
bearing three mesquite thorns. Chavez iS trying to remove them.
MOVING across one pool to another. we find Billy sitting on a rock. soaking his feet In the
springs and reading a yellow-covered dime novel.
There is an exaggerated drawing of a handsome bandit on the cover, r1dlng a stallion, a
senor1ta on the back. AUTHENTICATED ADVENTURES OF BIUYTHE KID, the title reads,
"Noted desperado and lover whose daring deeds are known throughout the Southwest."
Billy alternates between grinning and frowning as he reads. Two pair of legs and boots
move up stealthily behind him and stop.
DOC
Billy.
BILLY
(re: novel)
His hat was covered with gold and Jewels. It sparkled
and shone In a dazzling and blinding manner when
one looked upon It. The shoes worn by this young
prince of the plains were low-quartered with patent
silver spurs In the heels. His undergarments were of
fine scarlet broadcloth and-

86
DOC

\

Kid.
Billy turns to look at Doc and Dirty Steve. He holds up the "penny dreadful" to d!splay the
elaborate drawing.
BILLY
I wonder if I should start dressing like this ... ? Ya
know? To keep up the what-do-ya-call-it? The. uh ...
DOC
Billy, we been figurln' our course, and it looks like
we've just gone In one, big, circle. Twice.
BILLY
And?
DOC
And? And now it looks like we're head!n' back toward
Lincoln. I'm sure we're not going into Lincoln, but-BILLY
--we are.
A beat. Doc turns away, throwing up his hands .

. DOC
Christ in heaven.
DIRIYSTEVE

Ain't a good idea, Billy.
Charley ambles up to help, gingerly buttoning his trousers.
CHARLEY
Yeah, Billy. We're lucky to still be alive. Goin' back to
Lincoln ts-BILLY
--Lincoln IS where we'll find the rest of the men who
killed John ... and we're gain' to bury them. Then
we're going to bury Murphy
Doc wheels to face The Kid, and he dashes his derby to the earth.
DOC
It's two hundred against five!
BILLY
(mimicking)
It's two-hunered against five!!
(putting his boots on)
We take Murphy and The Ring falls. We take him ...
we win. Simple as pie.
DIRIYSTEVE

Can't get to him, Billy.

87
CHAVEZ

It's notJust two hundred men. There's bounty
hunters. too- everywhere we go. but not West.
BILLY
Oh. here we go ...
CHAVEZ

I chose our way. Chlvato. But now I see our
way Is your way. and I don't trust It anymore.
Throughout this speech. Billy bobs his head loosely like a sarcastic, defiant child.
CHAVEZ

California Is where we have to go.
CHARLEY
Dang on the money. Chavez. I believe in that Spirit
World stuff-let's go. California sounds good to meBILLY
-you're all scared.
Silence. Billy rises. brushing off his knees. He sticks the dime novel in his back pocket.
and for a time there is no sound but the WIND BANSHEEING in a gorge.
BILLY
,
(continuing)
You're all gonna fail the test.
DOC
What test?
BILLY
Everyday you have to test yourself. see how good you
are. see If you can make it. That is--outta the fire.
Once you stop testin' yourself. ya get slow. And they
kill ya.
Billy looks from face to face and looks sad.
BILLY
(continuing)
You fellas don't feel that? Like when Kinney's right up
on our ass and the balls are llyin' and lhe blood goes
right to your head. and it's like-Here. he draws over his shoulder--a skillful trick--dropping to a knee and BLASTING SIX
SHOTS behind him--and then the "killer shift" throwing rifle and pistol from hand to hand.
FIRING.BLASTING.
BILLY
(continuing)
Woo! Rlght oulta the fire!
He border rolls the gun. holsters it.

88
BILLY
(continuing}
It's really ... It's quite a--quite a sensation.
Doc stares blari.kly at him.
DOC
I'm sure It Is. I'm sure that In your mind, trumpets
sound and the angels sing a fargln' hymn. but I shit
my unions, Bllly, okay? We've taken enough Murphy
scalps. We can't end the range wars, just us. You
wanna get the president's attention, go ahead. You
wanna keep testln' yourself? fine. But me, Bllly? I am
riding to the border where I am getting a hot meal. a
bath, a good sleep ... and come mornin', I am a
Mexican Hasta luego.
Doc turns, picks his derby up from the sand and walks toward his horse.
CHARLEY
Me, too, Billy.
And Charley backs away, nervously, eventually turning and moving double-quick toward
his mount. Dirty Steve follows him. And after a moment, Chavez nods to Billy and goes
with the others.
And then the sound; the sound that they must all be praying won't break the silence but
does. And It Is the METALLIC CLICK of a well-oiled, warm colt pistol chamber, spinning
and locking. they all stop dead at their horses .

..

Again, the WIND MOANS In the valley. But The Kid Is aiming out at nothing just a habit.
BILLY
Mexico. Ah, see. You fellas are testin' yourselves and
you don't even know you're testln' yourselves. Tryln' to
make it to Old Mexico.
Billy starts to IAUGH and slowly the boys tum around, baffled.
BILLY
(continuing)
They'll be coverin' every possible which way In from
Texas to Arizona. Kinney knows everybody down along
the border; we got a full day through them thorns we
all love so much. Which is good hidln' for scalp
hunters and renegade Indians. incldently.
And now the young Regulators look troubled. Billy pulls his boots on over bare feet.
BILLY
(continuing)
The chances of makin' Old Mexico. well, hell ... that's
the test of all tests. ya ask me.
He tucks In his shirt, ,picks up his hat. blows some dust off it. and GIGGLES. He puts hi:,
hat on, tips it just light. And glins.

89
BILLY
I'm In.
And nobody else moves but William H. Bonney, walking briskly toward his black mare.

EXT. MEXICAN VILLAGE/JUAREZ· AT THE BORDER· LATE DAY
A MEXICAN WOMAN of middle age ls carrying two heavy buckets of water through the
adobe arch Into the village. The sound of HORSES causes her to tum her neck stillly and
squint Into the distance. Her craggy. tired face opens under a wide grin.

MEXICAN WOMAN
(a sacrosanct whisper)
El Chlvato.

CUT TO:
A GATHERING
of villagers. swarming the young riders as they enter through the arch. Flowers are being
thrown, SONGS SUNG and the CHANT "El Chl-va-to!" thunders in the village.
billy raises an arm, throws a k!ss, then IAUGHS wildly at hiS own hammy actions. The
other bays look relieved, IAUGHING and reaching down to toucl::i hands with the villagers.

INT. VILLAGE HUT· NIGHT
Charley Bowdre sits at a dining table with Manuela, her mother and grandmother, eating a
hot meal. The older ladies are not eating at all. Just sitting and looking back and forth
between their child and the young desperado.
CHARLEY
It's all over, Manuela. When the sun comes up--WOO!
Yoo-hoo!.
The older ladies jump slightly.
CHARLEY
(continuing)
We go to Mexico. No more trouble. No mas tipico. We
gain~.
Manuela smiles, pleased. Her mother and grandmother WHISPER and nod positively.
CHARLEY
(continuing)
Manuela? I'd like you to go with me. Just you and
me.
Manuela looks hopefully to her mother. The old women confer.

90
EXT. VILLAGE- NIGHT
Dirty Steve sits with Chavez at a fire. In the background. the villagers prepare a pig on a
spit.
DIRTY STEVE

Before that ol' nlgra died. Chavez, he looked up at
me--half gone--and he said, "Gonna come a day." I
reckon th!s Is the day he was talkln about. The day
when I get so scared a'death that I "revallze" that no
killln's good killln'. I used to fancy myself ridln' with
Jesse James. Right now, I just wanna take up on a
beanfield and chase poon-ta nights. I ain't even been
able to get it stiff with all this worryln' about gettln' it
shot off.
Chavez smiles, reaches across the fire. and Dirty Steve looks confused. Chavez Is offering
him his hand.
DIRTY STEVE

(continuing)
Now, hold It, Chavez. This don't mean I'm about to rub
carrots with no Mexican Zuni.
Chavez stares at him In d!sbellef. But Steve smiles and takes his hand. giipping it tight.
His smile fades away quickly.
DIRTY STEVE

(continuing)
Been damn good ridln' with ya.
CHAVEZ
Many nights ... I put a blade to.your neck while you
were sleeping. I'm glad I never killed you. Steve.
You're all right.
Dirty Steve does a hard take and slowly brings a hand to his throat to touch the skin
lightly. Chavez smiles.
AT THE EDGE OF THE VILLAGE

almost literally on the border. Billy lies on h!s back in the sand. A MEXICAN GIRL. twentythree or so, sits near him. staring at him with great caution.
BILLY
Nah. This ain't ...
(a long. long beat)
This just ain't right.
He fingers his front pocket, pulls out a big cigar. Lights It. The girl, sitting in the sand a
safe distance away. fans her hand in front of her nose: a comment about the cigar.
BILLY
(continuing)
I know what's back there. That !s--New Mexico.
(MORE)

91
BILLY (CONTD)
know the saloons, the doctors. The caverns. The
livers. Every nook and cranny. I don't know what's on
the other side.
·
(he smokes)
And besides, It's my country. I'm on the front page of
the newspapers just as much as Rutherford B. Hayes.
I'm Just as famous.
There Is a long silence as Billy smokes the cigar and the girl fans her nose.
BILLY
(continuing)
Rutherford wouldn't even be able to get a good table at
a cafe In Old Mexico. And neither will I.
Billy suddenly draws, aims at a man In the shadows. But It Is only Doc eating a piece of
pork.
DOC
Don't shoot, Billy. 1Just wanna Invite ya'll to a
weddln'.
BILLY
When?
DOC
Now.
(he smiles)
Charley's got a wife.
Billy border rolls the gun and holsters it. He looks out toward the fires, the celebration.

CUT TO:
AN INCREDIBLE FIESTA
alive with MUSIC, dancing, roasting pigs, wine and tequila.
Charley walks through the party with his bride on his arm, colorful flowers implanted in
-his shock of dusty hair, which Is stuffed under a sombrero.
The Regulators share wide grins, flanking him and CLAPPING hands in a steady tempo.
Mother and grandmother follow only with their eyes now.
APINATA
is smashed open, hundreds of trinkets and candies flying through the air.
BILLY
walks alone, away from the celebration, a bottle of tequila In his hand. He passes by a
small, ramshackle barn and stops at the sight of a little animal staling at him.
A goat. small and white, new horns budding. It walks up to BIILy, looks Into his face with
wide alert eyes.

92
Billy returns the stare and slowly drops to one knee. He calls the goat nearby, pretending
he has something in his hand. He scratches in the dirt, makes a '"TSK, TSK" sound. The
goat takes a step forward. But a shadow falls over the goat. The shadow of someone big.
The little kid runs away and Billy draws, wheeling on a knee.
Pat Garret stands over him, dressed for long travel in hot weather. Well-heeled. His hair
has grown out a bit. His mustache Is thicker. He tenses at the sight of the pistol.
In the background, Garret's horse and mule loiter. hitched to a tree.
BILLY
Juan Largo.
GARRET

That's right.
BILLY
(smiles, proud of his memory)
But your real name Is Garret. Pat.
Garret smiles, and we note that his eyes are glassy, heavy, like one who has been imbibing
heavily, or maybe taking sylvarlum for the ol' Snake City syphilis.
GARRET

Good. Quick boy.
BILLY
(smiling. continuing)
Uh. sheep, cattle and whore thief.
GARRET

Now. that's not a very civilized thing to say. BJl!y.
BILLY
What are you doing here? No one's supposed to come
in here.
GARRET

Goin' back to Lous'lana for family business. Wanted to
see the boy whose become such a sensation since we
met. These Mexicans will let anyone In who brings a
gift.
BILLY
Well, how'd you know I was here?
GARRET

I'm a tracker. Gonna be hell as sheriff. if they elect
me.
BILLY
Walt a minute. what are you say!n'? I don't-GARRET

--the officials have asked me to run.
BILLY
Then I'm askin' you to run. too.

93
Billy climbs to his feet. points north with his pistol.
BILLY
(continuing)
That way.
Billy then pans the awesome revolver to Garret's face. thumbs back the hammer with a
nasty click.
BILLY
(continuing)
Or I'll take your shlttln' scalp like I did Brady's.
GARRET

Billy, I ain't the law yet. And I ain't here to get your
ass hairs up. Truth Is, I come from a family of small
farmers. so I'm one of them secretly sayln' "Amen" as I
read about your. uh ...
BILLY
Mission-GARRET

--mission.
Billy sets the hammer back. holsters his piece.
GARRET

(continuing)
No, I ain't here to push you none, Billy. I'm here to tell
ya some bad news about a friend we share.
·
Billy throws a quick look at Garret. on edge.
GARRET

(continuing)
Mcsween. Tunstall's lawyer.
BILLY
What about Alex?
GARRET

He's gonna die. Tomorrow. He and his wife. At his
house.
Billy's eyes narrow.
GARRET

(continuing)
Murphy and Dolan know he's coming back to Lincoln
tomorrow. They're gonna wait till he's home, then go
pay a visit.
Billy just stares at Garret, deeply upset by this Information.

94
GARRET

(continuing)
Alex has been good to me. If I wasn't depending on the
support of The Ring for my future, I'd round up some
help myself.
(looking out at the celebration)
Who's gettln' married?
BILLY
What time are they e.'Cpectin' him?
GARRET

Supper time. I figure you're the only fella with the
pluck to get up a bunch of Mcsween partisans and go
give the man and his wife a rightful escort across the
border.
Billy looks out at the celebration. Charley Is spinnL'1g his wife in a circle of villagers.
Garret is looking at Billy's bottle. The Kid hands it up to him without a word. Garret takes
an effortless pull olT It and hands It back to the young man.
GARRET

(continuing)
Ain't been In Lou 'siana for quite a spell. ru see ya,
Billy.
Garret waits for Billy Bonney to say goodbye, but he doesn't. Not until Garret has taken
several long-legged strides toward the arch out.
BILLY
Garret?
The big man turns slightly.
BILLY
(continuing)
Are you my friend, or what?
Billy looks tired, a little drunk. a little confused by this sudden load of Information.
GARRET

Yes, I am, Bill.
Billy nods and watches Garret continue walking toward his horse and mule.
BILLY
Hey. Why don't you ride with us, Juan Largo? You'll
go to heaven.
GARRET

(as he walks)
Just goln' to Lous'iana is chore enough. G'night, Kid.
Congratulate the married man for me.
Billy takes a drink and looks out at his celebrating boys. Behind him, Garret stops
walking ... and like a big cat. he turns.

95
Garret stares at Billy The Kid's back. a slight, youthful target. He slowly lowers a hand--a
trembling hand--to his revolver. Touches it ... gets a grtp. And then notices-A LITI'LE VILLAGE CHILD. a young boy with deer-like brown eyes gazing at htrn in silence.
Watching.
Garret smiles wanly at the Mexican boy and turns. walking on.
IN THE DANCING CIRCLE
Charley swings Manuela, releases her, does a silly dance on his own to the drunken
GUFFAWS of Dtrty Sieve and Chavez and the Mexican-Arnertcan men.
Suddenly a GUNSHOT goes off in the distance and MUSIC STOPS. The dancing comes to
an end. Dlfildent eyes look out toward-THE ARCH
where Billy stands, barefoot, pistol in hand. alongside his leg. He has fired a shot to get
attention.
BILLY
Regulators.
IN THE CIRCLE
Charley just stares vacantly as lf perhaps a beautiful dream has just merged with jarrtng
nightmare.

INT. ADOBE HUT
Doc, sitting alone, depressed, reading David Copperfield, looks up at the sound of Billy's
voice from afar, shouting that word. That word that once had some kind of meaning.

EXT. IN THE VILLAGE
The people swarm the young men. who are high on horseback loading their firearms and
accepting full canteens and wrapped meat from their frtends.
Billy rtdes up beside Charley who looks lost. a lightness at his throat.
MANUELA CRIES at her mother's arm.

BILLY
Charley.
(Bowdre is numb)
Charley.
Charley looks over.
BILLY
(continuing)
Maybe you should stay. Ya can't shoot worth a damn
anyway. And lhis gal's really cryin'. She's givin' me a
headache.

96
Charley's eyes clear for a moment. then eclipse again.
DOC
· Go ahead, Charley. Ya got a wife.
Charley looks down at the crying Manuela. Then at Chavez, who ls offering a hand.
Charley grips it In what does not resemble a standard handshake at all. But it is a firm
grasp: a heartfelt one. Everyone waits for Charley to get down off h!s horse, but the
chubby Regulator only lowers h!s eyes.
CHARLEY
It ain't easy hav!n' pals.
Billy looks at him, amused. Then at the villagers.
BILLY
Ad!os. Chavez? Do your little ...
Chavez begins a LONG SPAN'ISH GOODBYE. thanking the villagers for their hospitality.
Billy's foot kicks horseflesh and Brewer's old mare takes him forward, the boys behind
him. Charley takes one last, long look at Manuela and ls gone.

EXT. LINCOLN PROPER - NEXT DAY - SUNSET
Mcsween's house, a tall wood and adobe structure set back a dozen yards from the road
and bordered--from the rear--by a short but sturdy wall.
,,
The street !s quiet today and the FEW PEDESTRIANS out walking hardly take note of the
five young gunmen riding in briskly and taking their horses around behind the Mcsween
house.
Historical date fades in:
JULY 14, 1878

A DOG BARKS somewhere.

INT. MCSWEEN HOUSE - A MOMENT LATER
Mcsween sits behind a small desk on which stands a kerosene lantern and a stack of
records and paperwork. He is wearing small round specs l!ke Doc's, and he is even more
haggard-looking than when we last found him along the river.
MCSWEEN
I am not leaving my house.
Billy stands before him, hat in hand. Doc is just behind him. Charley and Steve and
Chavez stand back aways wllh Susan.
BILLY
Word is out, Alex. They're coming here to kill you.
Any lime now.
Ale-"< stares at Billy, digesting the news. He removes his eye glasses and looks over at
Susan.

97
BILLY
(continuing)
We wanna lead you Into Old Mexico. Help ya. When
it's clear here again, we'll lead ya back.
MCSWEEN
I'm not a fugll!ve, Billy. and I don't wanna live like
one. I've got some merchandise coming In tonight.
Billy looks over his shoulder to Doc, nonplused.
BILLY
You stay, Alex. and they're gonna kill ya. Then I'm
gonna have to go around killin' everybody that killed
XQ.!!. That's a lot of killin'.
MCSWEEN
--You heard me, Billy.
SUSA."!
(stepping forward)
Alex, maybe-ALEX

You heard me!
SUSA."!
We can't just stay here and hope the good Lord saves
us from an all out-ALEX

--I'm sick, Susan. I can't go to goddamned Old Mexico!
Over near the window, Doc clears his throat to politely intern.ipt.
DOC
Don't fret. Alex. Trtp's been postponed.
Doc looks back out at the street below. The house goes s!lent. Billy walks slO\illy,
reluctantly, to the window and shares Doc's view.
POV • FROM SECOND FLOOR WINDOW:
on the street below, Sherill Peppin and his TEN-MAN POSSE are hitching their horses In
scurrying s!lence, throwing sandbags down, diving into position.
BILLY (O.S.)
Peppin. How's the east side, Chavez?
AT A SIDE WINDOW
Chavez carefully peers out, hand at his sash.
POV - FROM EAST SIDE WINDOW:
Murphy-Dolan's twenty-five Seven Rivers shilheads.

98
CHAVEZ (O.S.)
Murphy-Dolan men.
BILLY (O.S.)
Charley, how's It over by you? Can we break?
AT THE OPPOSITE SIDE WINDOW

Charley ambles over in a crouch. pulling up hiS LeviS and peeking out. He looks out and
retracts hiS head quickly. as if he's been cobra spit. He looks again. Says nothing.
POV FROM WEST SIDE WINDOW;

John Kinney anrt The Dona Ana Bunch getting into position.
BILLY
(impatiently)
Charley, how iS it?
REVERSE ON CHARLEY

looking away from the window, kneeling on the floor.
CHARLEY

It's John Kinney.
BILLY
only stares. having trouble believingjust what's happening. Mcsween comes up beside
him to look down.
MCSWEEN
I think the word that got to you was Just a trap to get

us all together in one place.
Billy keeps staring at Charley for some reason.
MCSWEEN
(continuing)
Look at them. It's going to be a massacre.
He turns to Susan. hiS eyes glassy, hiS asthmatic WHEEZE thickening. Doc sits in a chair.
DOC
Chrtst in heaven.
CHARLEY

It's John Kinney.
BILLY
Maybe they Just want ill;.
MCSWEEN
No. I don't think so. They can end the war in one fell
swoop right here. and that's what they're about lo do.
CHARLEY

It's John Kinney.

99
DOC
Okay, Charley, thank you!
Billy looks over at Susan.
BILLY
They'll let Susan go. They have to. They ...
Billy's eyes betray an uncertainty and a fear as he imagines the alternative. Susan comes
foxward, takes her husband's hand, takes a look for herself.
CHARLEY
(quietly from a corner)
Hang!n' for sure, now ...
PEPPIN (O.S.)
Bonney! We got ya up there, Kid. Take a look at the
firepower down here! You all come on out real slow!
The Regulators each drop to a knee. Alex motions Susan down, and she looks ill as she
smooths her dress and kneels on the floor.
PEPPIN (O.S.)
(continuing)
You up there, Bonney?
Bonney throws himself flat against the wall beside the window, and brtngs his lips as close
to the open wtndow as he can without formtng a target.
BILLY
Yeah, I-That's all the proof they need down below to OPEN UP ON THE HOUSE, BLASTING the
wtndows tn. Pepptn's men take out the glass near Billy, Doc. and Mcsween. while Murphy
and Dolan's men take out the wtndow near Chavez--lying flat on the floor--and John
Kinney's bunch SHATTERS GIASS, sill, and block a foot from Charley's vitrified head.
There is a long tense silence, and then an tncongruous response. Billy LAUGHS. A short
cackle that throws everybody's head around.

EXT. ON THE STREET
Larry Murphy, drunk and ruddy-faced, and packing a rifle, shouts up In his gruff brogue.
MURPHY
(shouting)
Hell of a sense of humor. Bonney!
(to his men)
Kill that weasel.
And they FIRE AGAIN, chipping away at the adobe structure. This attack triggers the same
from Peppin's posse.and Kinney's gunmen. doing a number on the quaint home in a matter
of seconds. .
·
Behind the war party, TOWNSPEOPLE run for cover.

100
INT. MCSWEEN HOUSE
Billy sits with his back against the wall. Iifle across his lap, one of his pistols in his right
hand.
DOC
What the hell we gonna do?
BILLY
Gotta show them that they met their match.
Billy turns his head up toward the caved in window.
BILLY
Hey, Peppin!
PEPPIN (O.S.)
I'm hearin' ya. Bonney!
BILLY
I see you have Charley Crawford down there with you.
third man from the left!
PEPPIN (O.S.)
Yeah. we got a whole lot of-Billy suddenly sprtngs. squartng himself in the window. and FIRES ONE SHOT. He
wriggles back to his seat.

EXT. ON THE STREET
CHARLEY CRAWFORD. third man from the left. lying behind a sandbag, is hit in the head
and driven into the dirt. Peppin watches in disbelief.
·
BILLY (O.S.)
Hey. Peppin!? Charley Crawford ain't with ya anymore!
PEPPIN
Bastard. Fire.
THEY OPEN UP AGAIN. just as Billy dives out of view.

INT. MCSWEEN HOUSE
Susan is on the floor. shaking. looking at Alex. who swigs from his bottle of medicine.
Dirty Steve crawls over to her.
D!RIYSTEVE
You okay. Ma'am?
She nods. looks at Steve's young face.
AT THE WEST SIDE WINDOW

101
Charley sits, clutching his boot p!stol In one hand. And he ls shaking.
AT THE EAST SIDE WINDOW
Chavez stays flat, and he Is loading a rifle.
AT THE FRONT WINDOW
Billy and Doc Sit facing Alex.
PEPPIN (O.S.)
We know you can shoot, Bonney! But we can, too; and
we got more firepower than you! Give It up!
BILLY
Charley, you take two rifles to your side. Doc, you go
help him and load heavy. Dirty Steve, take both
shotguns. go help Chavez. Alex?
Alex looks over. nervously. Billy throws him one of h!s many pistols. The attorney catches
it.
BILLY
(continuing)
This ls the last chance you got to handle John's case.
Alex throws It back.
ALEX

Active participation In a gun battle negates my life
Insurance policy. I can't do that.
Billy stares at him, baffied.
BILLY
.
Active participation in a ... that's catchy. Everybody
ready for some active participation? When I say
"participate," everybody fire.
Billy cocks his Winchester.

EXT. ON THE STREET
Peppin sends his men down the line, signals over to John Kinney.
PEPPIN
Ready?
But before he can give further instructions, The Regulators Bl.AST AWAY on them from
three sides, and everyone hits the dirt, bullets kicking Into sandbags, mules, and TWO
MORE MEN.
Silence.
PEPPIN
(continuing)
How many men they got up there?
(MORE)

102
PEPPIN (CONT'D)
(no one answers)
BLOWTI-IEM TI-IE HELL OUITA 11-IERE!
And the guns go off again, quaking the Mcsween house on its foundation.

SWW DISSOLVE TO:
INT. MCSWEEN HOUSE - NIGHT
Billy sits in his same defiant position by the window. PAN just enough to catch the moon
through the window. GUNSHOTS continue outside.
CAMERA BEGINS A SLOW AND STRANGE SWEEP of Charley, Doc. Susan, Alex and
Chavez; all haggard. Fnghtened.
And as we MOVE SLOWLY around to the window, night slowly gives way to dawn, the
moon to sun. PAN just enough to catch one of Billy's closed eyes. And the room is silent.
The street outside Is silent.
And then DRUMS. MARCHING. Rising out of the distance. Billy's eye opens.
Billy nses quickly, cranes to see down below. And when he spots what is making this
sound. he sits fast. Hard. Then looks again.
POV FROM SECOND FLOOR WINDOW - DAY
coming down Lincoln's winding road are 1WO SQUADRONS OF UNITED STATES
CALVARY--one squad all black soldiers--thlrty men in all, led by COLONEL NATHAN
DUDLEY at double-quick. Some men are marching, some riding, and ten of them rolling in
a pair of lethal-looking GATLING GUNS: cannons.
TOWNFOLK are CHEERING in the background.
CLOSER ON NEGRO SQUADRON
as they march aggressively, rifles at shoulders.
REVERSE ON DIRIY STEVE
as he beholds this sight. his Jaw dropping. The nightmare of his llfe--Black soldiers.
"Nigra" soldiers. Dozens of them.
Billy sits back down.
BILLY
They called in the troops.
Mcsween lowers his head. shakes it, rubs stubbornly at It.
DOC
We're good. But this is gettin' just a little bit outta
hand ...
SUSAN
No. They must be here to mediate; to break the whole
thing up--thank God. The townspeople have called
them.
(MORE)

103
SUSAN (CO1''TD)
(lo her husband)
.
Ale.-c, maybe you should send a note down.
Billy blows his nose in a kerchief.
BILLY
Here ya go, Mr. President. Quite a county here in little
al' New Mexico. Bring a picnic lunch!.

EXT. ON THE STREET · DAY
Colonel Dudley,. a powerfully-built officer with small eyes and a well-manicured beard,
walks through the Peppin crowd, his men beside hin1.
BEHIND THE MURPHY-DOLAN MEN
a carriage creaks to a step beside Jimmy Dolan, who Is on his horse drinking coffee.
In the carriage is District Attorney Pierce, Judge Brlstol and Yen Sun, delicately dressed for
lhe event.
DOLAN
Mr. Pkrce. Judge Bristol. Got all the rats ln one hole.

Pierce nods.
PIERCE
What's been taking so long? We didn't want U1e army
in here.
(quietly)
This is not the kind of attention we want.
Yen looks up at her guardian, then out at the adobe shooting target.
DOLAN
Everytlme we try to get in close, we lose men. They·ve
got about thirty boys up there. Maybe forty.
I see.

PIERCE

And Pierce cracks his mounts on, guiding the carriage straight toward the Peppin base
where Colonel Dudley speaks with the sheriff. Dudley seems to be leaning hard on the
local lawman until he sees Pierce and Bristol, pulling to a stop.
He walks over to meet with the Santa Fe Ring representatives.
COLONEL DUDLEY
Quite a bit of excitement. Hello, Judge, Mr. Pierce.
JUDGE BRISTOL
Good morning, Colonel.
Pierce stares at the Colonel inclemently.
PIERCE
\Vhy are you here. Nat11an?

104
COLONEL DUDLEY
I was dispatched here. Mr. Pierce. To make sure It
doesn't get out of the hands of the civil authorities.
Yen Is looking up at the adobe house.
JUDGE BRISTOL
Well, It has. BIiiy The Kld Is up there, killing men
willy-nilly. It IS In the best Interest of this county--of
this country--that you help us rid ourselves of the
killer.
PIERCE
What I believe the judge IS saying, sir ... Is orders
from Fort Stanton are overruled here In Lincoln by us.
And If you have any hopes for a political future in the
county seat--as I understand you do--you will respond
to our ... suggestions.
COLONEL DUDLEY
And what do you suggest, sir?
. PIERCE
Llne up your army, Colonel, and open fire on the
bastards. Cannons and all.
Dudley lowers his eyes, and Pierce and the Judge confer with a glance. Yen suddenly leaps
down off the carnage and breaks away.running through the soldiers, through the Peppin
crowd.
PIERCE
(continuing)
CHINA!
Pierce stands off-balanced In the carnage. Dudley looks after·the fleeing girl.
PIERCE
(continuing)
Stop her. soldiers! Stop her!
Pierce draws a derringer from his waistcoat.

INT. MCSWEEN HOUSE
Doc is looking out the window. then catches sight of the little Chinese girl running across
the front property. 1'.VO SOLDIERS chase her.
DOC
Yen.
He raises his Sharp's rifle and FIRES.
POV FROM SECOND FLOOR WINDOW:
a buffalo ball hits the ground at the soldiers' feet and they serpentine out of range. allowing
Yen to keep running, reaching the lower floor of the house and entering through the porch.

105
EXT. ON THE STREET
District Attorney Pierce stands In his carnage, fuming.
PIERCE
There you go, Colonel. Your troops have been fired on.
You're In the right now.
COLONEL DUDLEY
But your ... the girl ...
Pierce sits, moves his eyes from the house to the Colonel.
PIERCE
Bum It.

COLONEL DUDLEY
Excuse me?
PIERCE
I said ... bum it.

Dudley just stares at him.
COLONEL DUDLEY
Mr. Pierce ...
PIERCE
You don't have to, Colonel. Just tell your troops not to
mind the men who go around back and do.
Dudley hesitates, then nods, and walks away.

INT. MCSWEEN HOUSE - STAIRCASE
Doc ls running down the steps, Yen corning up. When they see each other, they stop for a
second of eye contact. Doc hurries down to her, grabs her In a hug, buries his· face In her
neck and lifts her.
Doc holds her tightly, rocks her as SHOTS GO OFF just outside the door.
UPSTAIRS

Billy and Dirty Steve are BLASTING rifles side by side.
RETURN FIRE chews up the wall around Charley, a GLASS CABINET SMASHING down on
him. His eyes are welling with tears.
CHARLEY
Hey, Billy. I gotta go. I got a ... a wife .... she's a
Mex.ic<in gal ... down in ...
Billy wheels, gripping rifle In one hand, pistol In the other, and there is a desperate look in
his eye.

•

106
BILLY
(continuing)
If you don't stand up and whup some ass. you're never
gonna make It back to the village. C'mon. Charley!
Charley remains kneeling on the floor, broken glass all over him, his face white.
DIRIYSTEVE
Is crawling across the floor with his weapon when he stops suddenly, nostrils flaring. He

smells something.
DIRIYSTEVE
They lit it. They lit the house.
Billy looks at Steve, and for the first time worry registers In his face.
COLONEL DUDLEY (O.S.J
Mr. Bonney! Mr. Mcsween! This is Colonel Nathan
Dudley outta Fort Stanton! come on out with your
hands high!
BILLY
I better reason with him.
Billy gets close to the window.
BILLY
Hey, colonel Shilhead! You can kiss my ass.
The boys exchange defeated glances. Mcsween looks stunned.
BILLY
I know what you want! Get President Hayes down here
and we'll come out! How do you like that?· Ahh.
Doc and Yen come back Into the room, and Doc leads the gtrl over to Alex and Susan
where she quickly kneels In a formal position Susan looks at her. perplexed.
Billy runs across the floor, sniffing at the SMOKE. panicking.
AT THE WEST SIDE WINDOW

Charley quakes under another fusilade that eats up the walls around him. He loads a rifle.
turns toward the window. He closes his eyes and tears spill down his face.
CHARLEY
Hey. Kinney. you bastard! I'm gonna shoot your ass!
I'm gonna shoot your ass from here to Carlsbad and
back. tf I have ta. you peeder-breath shit dog! Maniac!
BILLY
Yeah. Charley! Yeah!
GUNFIRE rocks the house. Charley raises the gun and FIRES SIX.

107
CHARLEY
YEAH!

--YELLING with every powder blast.
OUT OF A CORRIDOR
Chavez comes, leading five skittish horses out of the basement from where the FLAMES are
bursting. Bursting everywhere.

EXT. ON THE STREET
Colonel Dudley steps out in front ofh!s soldiers and the so-called civil authorities. John
Kinney IS standing beside Dudley and he has a quart bottle of bourbon in h!s hand.
COLONEL DUDLEY
The lady's coming out! There will be no firing!
A moment later, Susan Mcsween, doing her best to stay together, walks out from her
burning, bullet-knawed home. The Murphy-Dolan men and Kinney Bunch begin
CATCALLING rudely.

SUSAN
Colonel-MURPHY
(mocking her)
--oy, Colonel, can I do somethin' for ya, Sir? Back In
the tent, perhaps.
LAUGHTER r!ses from the lines. One of the men grabs her ass. She doesn't even flinch.
CATCALLS bombard her. Dudley stares straight ahead at the burning house.

SUSAN
Colonel. I don't understand what you, as a leader in
the U.S. Army are doing to my house ... but if! did, I
doubt It would matter. all I would like are my things
saved from the fire. Please grant my husband
perm!sslon to throw our valuables and clothing down.
Dudley stares silently at the burning house.

INT. MCSWEEN HOUSE
Billy crawls to a window and peers out--but he has to leap away when a FIAl\llING BEAM
falls with an EXPLOSION of BLACK SMOKE and SPARKS. Again he weasels to the window
and looks out.
BILLY'S POV;
an AMERICAN FLAG has been raised Just behind the gatling g\lns, a standard procedure
for calvary occupation. It undulates in the wind. Murphy, Pierce, Bristol and Dudley
stand Just below it.
REVERSE ON BILLY

108
peeking out at the flag. He contorts his face sarcastically.
BILLY
(singing loudly)
Oh. say can you seeeeeee ...
And he keeps SINGING, botching the words, but wailing just the same.
Behind him, the others are lugging trunks arid boxes to the window. Doc stops for a
moment and watches Billy. He drops to a knee beside Yen Sun. exhausted. And then he
falls in singing, too, MUMBLING in monotone. the words to the anthem. And Charley
starts too. All the Regulators--SINGING OFF-KEY.

EXT. MCSWEEN HOUSE
All eyes look up at the inferno from where the song moans.

INT. MCSWEEN HOUSE
As the boys hurry to get the Mcsween belongings to the window, they keep singing;

FLAMES surround them.
They sing the last line of the anthem, and Billy sticks his tongue out and razzes a long and
defiant punctuation.
·

EXT. MCSWEEN HOUSE
While the house, engulfed in flames, bums quickly, the thirty calvary men and Murphy
survivors remain in war stance.
BUly's men have laid three long wooden planks out an upstairs window like a ramp,
leading to the front yard. One by one, hat boxes. j ewelty boxes, and kitchen silver slide
down the ramp, coming to rest on the bottom.
MURPHY
This is a mighty big allowance, Colonel, woman or no
woman.
DUDLEY
That fire's moving fast. They'll be coming out with hot
britches within five minutes.
KINKEY
And when they do, we're opening up.
Colonel Dudley doesn't respond.
James Dolan, sitting on the mount behind the war zone, grtns impishly.
A BUZZ WORD is traveling fast down the rows of troopers.

109
BUZZWORD
When they come out--open up.
When they come out--open up.
When they come out-UP AT THE MCSWEEN Wil'•mow
a large clothes trunk IS edged over the sill and released, sliding down the ramp. striking the
other boxes like backed up luggage on a conveyor.
We HOLD ON this certain TRUNK. for it is a box that conta!ns something important.
SHADOWS darken the trunk as men pass to and fro.
AT THE FIRING LINE
the troopers continue with the buzz word, priming their guns, preparing for the ineV!table
surrender.
Murphy strolls by. ri!le on h!s shoulder. excitement in his eyes. Colonel Dudley lights a
smoke. John Kinney passes his bottle.
AT THE RAMP BOTIOM
the trunk sits angled between other rescued belongings. And then, suddenly, the lid files
open and Billy pops out at us, BLASTING dual pistols. his bucktoothed grimace big and ·
· wild. Like a loaded Jack-In-the-box he blazes away, SCREAMING OUT.
ATTHEWARLINE
every soul is caught off guard for the second drop that Billy needs.
TWO PEPPIN POSSE MEN are hammered by the lead; District Attorney Pierce is leveled;
John Kinney's bourbon quart ls smashed in his hand. and then so is hiS head: a SOLDIER
.
is dropped; while all others OPEN FIRE ON-BILLY
who quickly hurls himself up and over the trunk. clutching his ri!le and falling behind rows
of boxes and trunks. PLATES and CHINA and SILVER are riddled. but only one ball nails
Billy.
FIVE HORSES
CRASH out through the names from the ruins of the house, Doc at the helm, firing the Big
Filly. Yen is on the back of his horse, clinging to him. eyes closed.
Dirty Steve rides to the side of him. throwing fire from his shotgun, but a DOZEN POWDER
BLASTS knock him off the horse, slamming him to the ground and killing him.
Charley storms out on a third horse. firing a rille. But when he sees Steve go down, he
sweeps back, leans down ... and FOUR SHOTS knock him to the ground. He keeps going
for Steve, standing up and taking another fus!lade. He goes down again. Crawls for Steve.
Chavez is on the fourth horse. riding Zuni style. blade in hand.
Mcsween is on the fifth horse. but he freezes in the raining gunfire. tries to tum his horse
around. go back to the burning house. He is shot ELEVEN TIMES and thrown into the air.

110
Billy leaps for Charley's horse. which is circling cold-Jawed. Powder balls rip through his
buttocks. but Charley stands again. taking a fusilade meant for Billy and he runs two steps
before falling dead next to Dirty Steve.
AT THE ADOBE WALL
separating the Mcsween house from a river and the Sierra Bonita foothills. Doc jumps his
horse just as several lead balls hit him, knock him off the horse. Yen is hit twice--once
through the cheek. but stays on, clears the wall.
Chavez's horse Is killed before he makes the wall. and he makes a diving effort to grab
Billy's stirrup. He does, and when Billy clears the wall. Chavez goes with him.
Charley. Doc. and Steve and Mcsween have not made the wall. Dirty Steve is dead.
Mcsween is dead. Charley is dead.
Doc runs. falls. but grabs the edge of the wall with his free hand. Someone grabs the
hand, yanks him up the wall. It Is Billy. his torso ruptured. He pulls the badly balled Doc
up ... and over as the wall is chewed apart by GATLING GUNFIRE.

EXT. MCSWEEN'S HOUSE
The Mcsween house is engulfed in flames. Colonel Dudley runs about frantically. ordering
his Gatling GUNNERS to cease fire and pursue the fugitives.
·
Lawrence Murphy stands white-faced and Incredulous for a moment. Voices are rising up
from the street, about SIXIY LINCOL."< RESIDENTS. CHEERING the miraculous escape.
MURPHY
He's getting away. He's getting ...
And then he panics. not being able to take another night knowing that William H. Bonney
is slinking about with new bodies to avenge.
·
MURPHY
Dudley! Get that sonuvabitch!
Murphy runs to the front of the action. sweat glistening on his red face in the reflection of
the fire. He stands at the ruins of the adobe wall. looking after the fleeing figures in the
d!stance. Soldiers ride past him, FIRING RIFLES.
MURPHY
(continuing)
Bonney! You bastard! You're a dead boy! You
hear me?!
Murphy's bellowing is barely heard over the CHEERING on the street.
IN THE SIERRA BONITA RIVER
Yen is thrown from her horse as it clears the wall and thunders for freedom. She falls In
the river and perishes there.
Chavez runs. grabs an errant mare. and as he clops full speed across the narrow river. he
drops low and grabs Yen, pulling her out of the river and Into the saddle on the run.

111
Billy rides with Doc behind him, pulling up alongside Doc's stray horse- the one that threw
Yen-and Doc ']umps pony" at full gallop, hanging on and following Chavez and his girl.
On the third suzviving horse, Billy lays low, looking half dead. RIFLE SHOTS crack the air
behind him, but It looks as though he can make It; ride the dorrel fifty more yards or so
and get lost in the brush. BILLY HEARS MURPHY'S TifREATS in the distance- a vague
· roar.
He looks ill ... fading in and out ... and then he Jerks back on the reins, stopping his
horse. Stops it dead, as if he can't go on.
DOC
turns, stares bafiled, horrified at 'The Kid.
CHAVEZ

looks back, too, can't believe it.
BILLY
turns painfully in his saddle ... raises an arm that is half-burnt from the fire, halfperforated from the endless powder blasts. He thumbs back the hammer on his Colt, the
effort producing a wash of blood over blue steel.
CLOSE ON BILLY'S EYES
focusing. Glaring. As if nothing has mattered more in his life; as if his monomaniacal
obsession Is about to culminate in this moment. But Murphy is a hundred and some odd
yards away. Soldiers are only fifty err. close enough to take The Kid.
Billy squints. And FIRES.

EXT. MCSWEEN HOUSE
Murphy stands bereft of reason in the crumbled adobe of the wall, looking down at the
foothills, at the hunters and their wounded prey. He ls screaming orders, gesturing wildly.
MURPHY

(his Irtsh thickening)
Get that little bastard, or I'll see thatMurphy cuts his sentence arr and looks distracted for a moment. He takes a step back,
then turns. staggering ... a neat black hole punched into the center of his forehead. The
soldiers and posse running to and fro don't even seem to notice as the big man FALLS Otrr
OF FRAME.

EXT. FOOTffiLLS
Billy watches Murphy collapse and for a split second, he looks surprised. He kicks his
horse and bolts, pushing the sorrel so hard he outruns Doc and then Chavez and Yen.
taking the lead.
As he clumps past. he spits out a breathless sentence.

112
BILLY
Got Murphy.
Doc and Chavez raise their heads as they ride, staring at Billy as they absorb _the
announcement. Then all drop their heads and rush Into the thick trees of the Sierra
Bonita, still only a hair out of calvary shooting range.

EXT. MCSWEEN HOUSE - DUSK
Flames consume the home while Dolan and several others kneel or stand around the dead
body of L.G. Murphy, shocked.
The CHEERING on the streets r!ses to a fever pitch and merges with a CHANTING we've
heard before. FARMERS are coming out of the woodwork, a hopefulness in their eyes.
MEXICAN VILLAGERS
El-Chi-va-to! El Chi-va-to!
THE FIRE

burns out of control as the SUPERIMPOSED IMAGE of Billy and the survivors thunder up
the mountainside In the last gllmmer of daylight.
The CHANT IS FADING ... but still heard into-

EXT. SIERRA BONITA RANGE - SECLUDED HOUSE - TWO DAYS LATER
A farmhouse has been built onto a one-room cabin, and It's .all been painted white, and it
all looks quite clean. set back In the brasada of the mountains. A W1ND moves through
the brush and the flowers that surround the home.
Susan Mcsween walks with DR TAYLOR EALY, an old bull-chested man. and TWO
WOMEN dressed llke school teachers or mln!ster's wives. Just in front of them walk three
llmplng, heavily bandaged, figures and a small Chinese girl, her face stitched and taped.
They are making their slugg!sh way toward three horses hitched in the cottonwoods.
Billy, both canvas pant legs slit, revealing two more silk scarves--a red one and a blue
one--threaded through neatly. His left arm Is bandaged from thumb to elbow, but he still
helps Chavez, who iS even more heavily bandaged, up onto his mount.
Doc, covering most of his dressed wounds with his perforated long duster. takes In the
world through one surviving lens of his specs. Doc Ealy and Susan help him up onto his
horse. He then reaches down for Yen who has no problem swinging up into the saddle.
She wraps her thin arms around doc and holds on tight.
Billy hugs the Widow Mcsween for a long moment. He then accepts Doc Ealy's help up Into
his saddle.
Once there, he looks out into the brush and draws his Colt. border rolls it and holsters it
again.

113
EXT. WHITE SANDS - SOUTHERN NEW MEXICO - DAY
Billy, Doc and Chavez, ride toward us out of a flaming red sun.
CLOSER • THE REGULATORS
slow to a complete halt somewhere In the middle of vast whiteness. The WIND BANSHEES
through a gorge, filling the silence that passes between the young men.
Billy looks at Chavez. and they lock eyes for a long time. Chavez ends the stare-down by
shaking hiS head slightly, to say no. Billy looks at Doc. then at his girl. Then hard Into
Doc's eyes. Doc extends a hand to Billy, and it takes The Kid a while to accept it and
shake goodbye.
DOC (V.0.)
(reading from newspaper)
Advices from Lincoln report that Jose Chavez Y Chavez
moved to California where he changed his name and
took work on a fruit ranch.
Chavez leans off his horse and hugs Bllly. He hugs Doc, then turns his horse and rides
West.
DOC (V.O.)
(continuing)
Josiah "Doc" Scurlock Is reported to have left the West
for the East. taking with him a celestial bride, her
mother and fourteen brothers and sisters.
Doc reins his mount In a circle. and with Yen Sun's arms wrapped around him, he starts
at a walk, in an easterly direction.
DOC (V.O.)
(continuing)
Susan Mcsween went on to see both her husband's
and John Tunstall's dreams to fruition by becoming
one of the most prominent cattle women of all time.
(a beat)
Governor Axtell was forced to resign by President
Rutherford B. Hayes, and both the Murphy-Dolan
faction and the Santa Fe Ring collapsed.
Billy starts his horse west, then east, then circles, looking out across the sands, not sure
where to go. He cracks his horse on, and rides at full-speed, north.
DOC (V.0.)
(continuing)
William H. Bonney ... also known as Bllly The Kid,
continued to ride. never leaving New Mexico. He was
caught In Fort Sumner by Sherill Pat Garret and killed
there. Sources report that he was unarmed and shot
In the dark. He was buried with Charley Bowdre at
Old Fort Sumner. Advices from Sumner report that
sometime later, an unidentified person snuck into the
(MORE)

114
DOC (CONT'D)
graveyard and chiseled an inscription on the
tombstone. The epitaph being but one word: pals.
And that word remaJns today.
LONG SHOT - THE WHITE DESERr
and the boys going separate ways: Chavez and Doc trotting easily. Billy racing with the
Devil.
.
LOS LOBOS SCORE BEGINS
And just as the young guns' trails give way to the expanse of sand and primrose flower, a
SLOW MOTION GHOST IMAGE appears over a broiling red July sun.
THE REGUIATORS
Dick. Charley, Diriy Steve, Chavez, Doc and Billy, riding hell-bent for leather. roughhousing, riding, laughing.

END CREDITS over image.

Lincoln, New Mexico
May, 1987