OKJA
Written by
Bong Joon Ho and Jon Ronson

INT. CEO OFFICE, MIRANDO COMPANY HEADQUARTERS, MANHATTAN - 1
AFTERNOON
SUBTITLES: 10 years ago. 2006.
An expansive, modern CEO office. Late afternoon sunlight
pierces the 74th floor of the Mirando Company. The company's
green tree logo covers one of the walls.
A woman stands at the window, her back filling the SCREEN.
She looks down at the lesser Manhattan skyscrapers. This is
LUCY MIRANDO (40s).
On the window are arrows pointing at the various Mirando
subsidiaries scattered throughout Manhattan: Mirando Organic
Harvesting, Mirando Peachy Delight Baking Company, Mirando
Chemicals, Mirando Tenderloin Fine Dining Supplies, Mirando
Biotech, Mirando Hungry Pirates Burgers, Mirando
Transformatives, Mirando Happy Pups Good Boy! Treats.
Lucy's breath mists over the arrows. She mumbles to herself
in a small voice, practicing some kind of speech.
A hand reaches in - holding a cosmetics brush - and begins to
gently brush Lucy's face.
From O.S a spray of HAIR SPRAY coats Lucy's hair.
WIDE: Lucy is surrounded by a MAKEUP ARTIST, a HAIR STYLIST
and MIRANDO COMPANY EMPLOYEES, including Lucy's senior
assistant FRANK DAWSON (60).
MAKE-UP WOMAN
I'm a huge fan.
Lucy looks at her, surprised.
MAKE-UP WOMAN (CONT'D)
Of your Tenderloin Fricassee ready
meal.
They both glance at an ADVERTISING POSTER framed on the wall a photograph of a FARMER gently stroking a cow's face. The
slogan: THE SECRET INGREDIENT IN OUR TENDERLOINS? TENDERNESS.
MAKE-UP WOMAN (CONT'D)
So what's all this about? The
reporters out there...
FRANK
Ms. Mirando doesn't want to have a
conversation right now, dear.

2.
LUCY
(Smiling)
It's okay, Frank. I'm not my
sister!
(To the Make-Up Lady)
I am announcing a miracle.
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM, MIRANDO COMPANY HEADQUARTERS - DAY
The conference room is packed with REPORTERS and TV CREWS.
A spotlight shines on a small potted tree in the corner of
the stage. It looks uncannily similar to the Mirando Company
logo.
Lucy stands on the stage. She's charismatic, modern, maybe
slightly vulnerable. The sight calls to mind a Steve Jobs
product launch or Gwyneth Paltrow delivering a TED talk.
LUCY
On a Spring morning three years ago
a Chilean farmer named Senor Victor
Zamora Villacorta was tending to
his pigs when he chanced upon
something very strange.
A beat. Lucy has the reporters' attention. Lucy outstretches
her long, graceful arm and clicks on the touchscreen behind
her.
A PHOTOGRAPH fills the screen of a CHILEAN FARMER posing for
the camera. He looks wise, old, kind - straight out of
Chilean Farmer Central Casting.
LUCY (CONT'D)
I recently had the opportunity to
meet with Senor Villacorta at his
hilltop farm.
Each time Lucy says Senor Villacorta's name, she does so with
a slight Chilean twang.
LUCY (CONT'D)
We sat out on his porch and drank
wine as the sun went down.
Another PHOTOGRAPH appears on the screen, this time of Lucy
and Senor Villacorta drinking wine at sunset. A pictureperfect rustic setting.
LUCY (CONT'D)
He said the sweetest thing to me.
"Lucy!
(MORE)

3.
LUCY (CONT'D)
Why couldn't this miracle have
happened forty years ago when I was
looking for a wife! I could have
married a supermodel!" Well, I'm
sorry Senor Villacorta. It turns
out we don't choose when we get to
save humanity.
Lucy makes a peculiar hand gesture. The words "Saving
Humanity" appear on the screen in hundreds of languages, in
various styles of calligraphy.
LUCY (CONT'D)
(urgently)
The world's population is at seven
billion. 805 million of our fellow
humans struggle with hunger each
day, including 30 million right
here in the United States.
A PHOTO-MONTAGE of WORRIED-LOOKING HUMANS from across the
globe fills the screen behind Lucy. They look lost, helpless,
in need of a leader.
LUCY (CONT'D)
And by 2050? We'll somehow have to
feed a staggering 9.6 billion
people. The world is running out of
food and we are not talking about
it. We needed a miracle. And then
we got one - on Senor Villacorta's
little hilltop farm.
The lights dim. Music swells.
LUCY (CONT'D)
Say hello to Mary.
A photograph fills the screen of Senor Villacorta cradling a
VERY ODD-LOOKING PIGLET in his arms. The room falls silent as
the fascinated Reporters stare at the very odd piglet.
LUCY (CONT'D)
All the other piglets in the litter
were normal. But this peculiar
little lady turned out to be about
the least normal thing you can
imagine. Our scientists at the
Mirando Ranch in Arizona have been
raising Mary with love and care
ever since, observing her and
performing various studies. And I
can tell you the results right now.
(MORE)

4.
LUCY (CONT'D)
(Beat)
Mary is like nothing on earth.
FRANK watches Lucy speak from below the stage. He quietly
mouths 'like nothing on Earth' in time with her.
LUCY (CONT'D)
And so, please welcome to the stage
the inspirational ... Senor Victor
Zamora Villacorta!
SENOR VILLACORTA walks onto the stage and stands in his
predesignated spot. He's dressed in his full farmer's outfit.
There's a smattering of dutiful applause from the reporters.
SARCASTIC REPORTER
Uh, no offence to Senor...
LUCY
Villacorta.
SARCASTIC REPORTER
But we'd prefer to see the pig.
LUCY
(Smiling)
You will. But not yet.
BRITISH REPORTER
You're announcing the birth of the
world's most amazing pig and you're
not showing us the pig? You're a
temptress!
The British reporter gives Lucy a sleazy, misogynistic grin.
Lucy responds with a mock-scolding look.
BRITISH REPORTER (CONT'D)
(Winking)
You're much more fun than the last
Chief Executive!
LUCY
Of course I am. Peter. Yes, she's
my sister, but Nancy and I are very
different human beings with very
different business ethics. Very
different. The only thing we share
is our last name.
Lucy smiles, but her composure is slightly rattled.
question from the audience ends the brief silence.

A

5.
REPORTER C
What's so great about this pig
anyway?
LUCY
She has an impressive reproduction
rate.
The Reporters look underwhelmed.
LUCY (CONT'D)
(A small smile)
A regular sow averages five or six
piglets in a litter and two litters
in a year. Mary has mated with one
of our best hogs while she’s been
living with us in Arizona, and
she’s had a few piglets. Would you
care to see them?
Lucy makes a hand gesture. A FILM fills the screen of A
HUNDRED very odd-looking piglets grazing the beautiful,
grassy acres of the Mirando Ranch.
A beat while the reporters take it in. Then the room ERUPTS
with a volley of QUESTIONS and CAMERA FLASHES.
Under the stage, Frank SMILES. This is going exactly to plan.
SARCASTIC REPORTER
How the hell did one pig have so
many babies?
LUCY
(Beat)
She got big.
The reporters take in the implication.
LUCY (CONT'D)
And her babies are going to get big
too.
REPORTER B
Show us a picture of the big pig!
LUCY
(Smiling)
Simon! Patience! Last week we sent
twenty-six of Mary's Super Piglets
to the twenty-six countries around
the world where our Mirando branch
offices are located.

6.
The screen behind Lucy becomes a colorful world map. Through
cool graphics we see the Super Piglets being spread to New
Zealand, Brazil, France, Sweden, Spain, Germany, Denmark,
South Korea, Japan, South Africa, and so on.
LUCY (CONT'D)
Each piglet was given to an
esteemed local farmer.
A PHOTOMONTAGE of SUPER PIGLETS being handed by MIRANDO
EMPLOYEES to charismatic-looking FARMERS in picture-perfect
locations. Faces of all shapes and colors. A testament to the
global nature of the project.
LUCY (CONT’D)
I have asked each farmer to raise
their special guests in a natural
environment with the utmost care,
honoring traditional techniques
unique to their respective
cultures. My top scientists at the
Mirando branch offices will be on
hand to offer whatever support is
required.
(beat)
And now we have a competition!
On the word 'Competition' the colorful world map reappears on
the large screen behind Lucy. The faces of the Local Farmers
appear over the map.
LUCY (CONT'D)
These little piggies will be the
forebears of a whole new species!
From these, we’ll pick the most
exceptional specimens and develop
them into a super breed! A
revolution in the livestock
industry! And one local farmer will
rear the biggest and most beautiful
and special one! The Ultimate Super
Pig! But which farmer will it be?
Will Denmark win? New Zealand?
That's my bet! But I'm no expert.
(beat)
But I know someone who is! The
judging panel will be led by none
other than the wonderful Dr. Johnny
Wiseman - TV’s most popular
zoologist and veterinarian - and
the new face of the Mirando
Company!
The reporters are taken aback.

7.
REPORTER
Johnny Wiseman’s working for
Mirando now?
LUCY
Let’s remind ourselves of Dr.
Johnny’s work.
The screen behind Lucy fills with a MONTAGE of famous clips
from the HUGELY SUCCESSFUL TV show DR. JOHNNY’S MAGICAL
ANIMALS:
A GORILLA throws straw in DR. JOHNNY’s face. Dr. Johnny
laughs uproariously. Dr. Johnny lies underneath an ELEPHANT,
washing its underside. The elephant takes a shit on Dr.
Johnny's face. Dr. Johnny shrieks with laughter. Dr. Johnny
cuddles a Panda.
Throughout it all we hear upbeat music - MAGICAL, MAGICAL
ANIMALS!
The MONTAGE ends.
LUCY (CONT’D)
(to the screen)
Oh Johnny!
(to the reporters - a
little chilly)
He's just hilarious.
REPORTER
How did you get Johnny Wiseman
working for you?
SARCASTIC REPORTER
Deep pockets, right?!
LUCY
(smiling)
We're just delighted to have him!
(beat)
When the competition reaches its
climax, Dr. Johnny will crown the
winner at a Magical Animals live
telecast right here in New York
City! THAT'S when we'll unveil our
Super Pigs to the world! And,
believe me, it'll be worth the
wait.
Senor Villacorta is still standing on his spot - awkwardly nobody paying him any attention.

8.
REPORTER
How long will the wait be? When do
we get to see the big pigs?
For a beat, Lucy looks like she doesn't know what to say.
Then she recovers.
Ten years.

LUCY

ELDERLY REPORTER
Ten years?! Jesus Christ. I'll be
dead by then!
BRITISH REPORTER
This has to be the longest beauty
contest in world history! If it was
Miss America all the girls would be
old and ugly by the end! They'd be
putting the crown on the head of a
wizened old hag!
The sleazy British Reporter grins and looks around, pleased
with himself for his joke. Frowns from a few of the female
reporters.
LUCY
I don't think 10 years is a
terribly long commitment, given
that we’re developing an entirely
new, scientifically ground-breaking
species that will single-handedly
remedy the planet’s food shortage
crisis! Our super pigs will not
only be big and beautiful, they'll
be designed to leave a minimal
footprint on the environment,
consuming less feed and forage,
producing less excretions. But most
importantly ...
Lucy creates a long, expectant beat.
LUCY (CONT'D)
They'll need to taste fucking good.
A Pig-Faced Reporter blurts out ...
PIG-FACE
Goddamn right!
Lucy and the other reporters laugh. The atmosphere is merry.

9.
Frank laughs and claps loudly as music begins to flow through
the speakers - The Isley Brothers' HARVEST FOR THE WORLD.
...All babies together, everyone a seed, half of us are
satisfied, half of us in need... Love's bountiful in us,
tarnished by our greed, when will there be a harvest for the
world?
LUCY
Ten years. That's when there'll be
a harvest for the world. Thank you.
Words drift across the screen: 'The Super Pig Project.'
'Saving Humanity.' 'Harvest for the World'.
INT. BATHROOM / HALLWAY, MIRANDO COMPANY HEADQUARTERS - DAY 3
Lucy Mirando slumps on the toilet with a cigarette in her
mouth, sans makeup. She is web-searching articles on her
cutting edge 2006 flip phone. Press photos of her dancing to
“Harvest For the World” pass through the screen. She begins
mouthing words to herself. We don't know whether she's
reading the article or reliving her speech.
The phone begins to ring and the name "Nancy Mirando" flashes
across the screen in bold letters. Lucy debates whether to
answer before shutting it.
CUT TO:
Lucy washes her hands in front of the mirror. She feels
something behind her and turns around to find... Frank
awkwardly holding out his phone.
LUCY
What is it?
FRANK
It's Nancy.
(looking at Lucy)
She said you weren't answering...
LUCY
(hushed voice)
Are you working for me, or her?
Jesus, Frank.
Lucy's outburst barely affects Frank, who stares back with an
innocent face. Lucy takes the phone.
LUCY (CONT'D)
Hey, sis! How's London?

10.
A LONG SILENCE. We hear Nancy breathing down the phone.
LUCY (CONT'D)
(beat)
Are you angry?
Another hard silence.
LUCY (CONT'D)
(trying to keep it light)
Come on, Nance! Don't be angry!
Talk to me!
NANCY (V.O.)
(finally)
I think Denmark's going to win.
LUCY
(happily)
Really? Why do you think Denmark?
A small, cold chuckle from Nancy.
LUCY (CONT'D)
Are you mocking me? Please don't
mock me.
(beat)
Nance?
Yes, Luce?

NANCY (O.S.)

LUCY
(awkwardly)
What I did today... Do you think
Dad would have liked it?
NANCY (V.O.)
Oh, Lucy, sweetheart. Poor darling.
Dad would have thought you were a
total cunt.
CUT TO:
Lucy walks out of the bathroom and hands the phone to Frank
waiting by the door. An EXTREME WIDE SHOT of Manhattan
skyscrapers. We see Lucy as a small dot as she walks down the
infinite hallway.
MAIN TITLES
TITLE OVER BLACK: "OKJA"

11.
The STREET NOISE and sounds of AIRPLANES are replaced by
meditative SOUNDS OF NATURE - the mountain breeze and
chirping birds.
DISSOLVE TO:
EXT. MOUNTAIN - DAY
A thick forest sits at the foot of a mountain range that
stretches for miles.
SUPERIMPOSE TITLE: "The Present Day. 2016."
SUPERIMPOSE TITLE: "South Korea."
When the TITLE disappears, we notice a tiny white dot moving
in the woods far ahead. A person? An animal?
EXT. WOODS - DAY
A SMALL GIRL carefully climbs down the hill, a straw sack
over her shoulder, her face a mix of street-smart
stubbornness and innocence. She is MIJA.
We hear BUSTLING behind her - and see a VERY LARGE and VERY
STRANGE-LOOKING ANIMAL unsteadily tiptoeing down the hill. It
is a fully grown SUPER PIG - OKJA.
Okja clumsily makes her way down the hill, looking terrified.
She steps on a thorny chestnut bur and immediately freezes.
She looks back and forth between Mija and her foot with a
blank expression. She looks silly - the hugely oversized
creature with her foot daintily raised.
Mija immediately runs over and plucks the chestnut bur from
Okja's foot. Okja blows through her nostrils in relief, still
wearing the same blank expression. She is awesome in size,
but slow, and doesn't appear very intelligent.
EXT. PERSIMMON TREE, WOODS - DAY
From atop the hill, Mija looks down at a tree in the bottom.
It teems with ripe orange persimmons.
Go!

MIJA

On Mija's command, Okja enters frame and runs downhill
towards the tree. But she trips over her feet and begins
tumbling and tumbling until...

12.
...she hits the tree trunk. THUMP. The tree is nearly pulled
out of the ground. Ripe persimmons fall everywhere.
Okja raises herself, unfazed by the impact. Mija scuttles
down and gathers the persimmons in her straw sack. She picks
up the largest one and throws it to Okja, who snaps up her
chin and catches it like a dog catching a tennis ball.
CLOSE ON Okja's silly, innocent face as she moves her
humongous jaws, savoring the juicy persimmon.
EXT. STREAM - DAY
Mija peers into the water. She looks up and waves at Okja
(O.S.) - indicating a part of the stream where the water is
deepest.
Suddenly, Okja's colossal body fills the SCREEN as she flies
across the air toward Mija. She splashes into the water,
sending a mini-tsunami in all directions.
Like when an obese person jumps into a small tub, copious
amounts of water and FISH flow over the banks. The fish flap
around frantically. Mija quickly picks out the larger ones,
puts them in the sack and throws the little ones back into
the stream. Quick and efficient. A familiar routine.
With her eyes and nostrils barely poking out of the water,
Okja takes a leisurely swim. Mija takes off her clothes and
jumps in. They swim under the blissful autumn sunlight. An
idyllic moment. It feels like time has stopped.
Okja suddenly climbs onto a large rock. She shakes off the
water like a dog and tightens, arching her body. Her large
ears point up in a peculiar fashion. Mija catches the
'signal'.
No! Wait!

MIJA

Okja glances at her and freezes. Mija quickly swims upstream
until - at a safe distance - she gives Okja the 'OK' sign
with both hands. With that...
Okja's epic pooping begins.
It is similar to the pooping of hippopotamuses. Okja spins
her short tail like a helicopter as she projects fecal matter
in all directions. A spectacular scene, with countless pieces
of shit flying across a wide radius. The excrements fall in
the water and fish gather around the pieces to feed on them.
The 'circle of life' in full effect.

13.
Okja jumps back in the water and the fish gather around her
bottom. They swim gracefully as a school, chasing after
whatever is left behind by Okja.
EXT. NEAR THE STREAM - DAY
Okja is sprawled on a rock next to the stream, taking a nap.
Mija sleeps on Okja's belly, moving up and down every time
Okja takes a breath. Whenever Okja shifts, Mija adjusts,
somehow maintaining her position on the belly.
We notice a small BLACK BOX the size of a cell phone attached
to Okja's ear.
EXT. MIJA'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS
Mija's grandfather, HEE BONG (70), carries firewood, getting
ready to make dinner. The sun is falling fast. Hee Bong looks
toward the mountains with concern.
HEE BONG
(Shouting)
Mija! Where are you?
EXT. STREAM - CONTINUOUS
Hee Bong's voice echoes through the mountains. Inside Mija's
straw sack, half-submerged in water, a fish peeks through the
chestnuts and persimmons, still breathing.
Mija jolts awake. She looks around blankly before realizing
she slept too long. She shakes Okja awake. Okja spreads open
her humongous jaws and yawns.
MIJA
(to Okja)
We're late for dinner. We'll take
the short cut.
Okja responds with a distinctive SQUEAL.
EXT. TRAIL/CLIFF - DAY
The short-cut is narrow and borders a steep incline. Mija and
Okja hurry down it. Mija notices that the rope around Okja's
neck is hanging limply off her. She turns to re-tie it,
suddenly SLIPS, and FALLS down the incline, the rope in her
hand. She slides towards a SHEER DROP.

14.
She grabs a nearby scrub, which holds her for a moment, then
SNAPS in her hand. She continues sliding, the cliff edge
approaching sharply...
Okja looks blankly down. Then she suddenly steps on her end
of the rope. Mija's plummet abruptly STOPS. She dangles
precariously over the cliff - her life barely preserved by
the tip of Okja's foot.
Okja lowers her enormous snout toward the rope, trying to
pull Mija back up with her mouth. But her mouth and tongue
are large and unwieldy. Okja struggles until - in a sudden
move - she twists her neck and successfully bites the rope.
But as she does, she loses balance and begins sliding down
the incline.
Still desperately holding onto the rope, Mija immediately
drops several feet in the air. Then she suddenly STOPS.
She looks up and sees Okja peeking over her, having slid all
the way to the edge of the cliff. The rope is tightly
stretched between them. Large drops of drool escape through
Okja's fiercely clenched teeth and fall onto Mija's body.
With an emphatic umph, Okja steps backwards, the rope in her
mouth. She somehow manages a few strenuous steps. But then a
rock that had been anchoring her foot suddenly comes loose
and she begins sliding again.
Mija SCREAMS as she goes into a free fall. Okja shrieks too
as she slides towards the SHEER DROP.
Suddenly, Okja spots a large tree stump below. With the rope
clenched in her mouth, she twists and steers her body towards
the stump. Right before reaching the edge, she coils herself
and jumps over to the other side of the stump.
Okja FALLS OFF THE CLIFF. But the rope hung over the stump
forms a pulley mechanism. And so - as Okja dives headlong
with the rope in her mouth - Mija is pulled up by Okja's
weight.
As Okja falls and Mija rises, they lock eyes at the midpoint.
A fleeting moment of desperate, longing sadness.
When Mija reaches the tree stump, Okja unclenches her jaws
and lets go of the rope - PLUMMETING towards the woods below.
MIJA
(Screaming)
OKJA!

15.
Okja plummets further, until she's swallowed up in the green
leaves. Mija's heart breaks as she watches Okja fall after
saving her life.
OKJA!

MIJA (CONT’D)

There is no answer from below.
EXT. FOREST BELOW THE CLIFF - DAY
The forest is densely packed with trees. Mija desperately
searches for Okja, but she is nowhere to be found.
OKJA!

MIJA

The echo dies out, and the forest is once again silent. We
only hear the BUZZING of insects and the CHIRPING of birds
until...
...we hear a huge FART from somewhere in the woods. Mija
quickly turns toward the sound. She sees Okja through the
trees - casually chomping on grass, completely unaffected by
the fall. Mija runs over with a huge smile, happily swinging
the straw sack on her shoulder.
MIJA (CONT'D)
Okja! Are you okay?
Mija checks everywhere on Okja's body for injuries. As she
does, Okja slowly slinks to the ground and lies on her back.
She lets out a MOAN and pretends to be hurt while she
continues to chew on the grass. She holds up her rear foot
and begs for attention, like a little child. Mija looks at
her foot.
She sees a fresh scar near Okja's hip, blood oozing from it.
She picks out a ripe persimmon from her sack and peels it.
She takes the soft inner part and rubs it gently against
Okja's wound. The soft, moist sensation soothes Okja and she
slowly closes her eyes. Her chewing slows as well.
MIJA (CONT'D)
You like that?
Okja MOANS in pleasure.
MIJA (CONT'D)
You saved my life. Again.
Okja SQUEALS in response.

16.
It looks like they're really talking to each other. Mija
holds up Okja's large, floppy ear and whispers something. We
can't hear what, but the soft whisper, combined with the late
afternoon sunlight, leaves us with an achingly beautiful
feeling. Okja nods as if responding to whatever Mija said.
EXT. MIJA'S HOUSE - EVENING
CLOSE ON a dinner table. Wild greens, potatoes, boiled eggs,
pan-seared fish in the middle. It's the fish Mija caught at
the stream earlier. Hee Bong and Mija sit in the living room
and chow on the dinner.
HEE BONG
(out of the blue)
Uncle Mundo says he's coming by
tomorrow.
MIJA
To collect the money? For Okja?
HEE BONG
I already sent the money to the
company.
MIJA
Right. So Okja is ours now.
Hee Bong nods. Mija smiles.
MIJA (CONT'D)
So why is Uncle Mundo coming?
Paperwork?
Without answering, Hee Bong turns away and switches on an
ancient tube television. A soccer game is on.
HEE BONG
Damn. The first half is almost
over.
The screen blinks on and off with static. Hee Bong slaps the
side of the set, making it normal again. With his eyes on the
soccer match, he picks up his spoon to eat when the screen
blinks and dissolves into static again.
HEE BONG (CONT'D)
Son of a...
Great!

MIJA
Now we can buy a new TV!

17.
Hee Bong goes over to the TV. He raises his hand to strike it
again when... BUZZ. The screen returns. It's as if the TV is
afraid of Hee Bong.
HEE BONG
This one's perfectly fine.
MIJA
(pouting)
Such a tightwad...
Behind Mija's disgruntled face, we see Okja poking her head
out of the shed to drink water from the bucket. Hee Bong
retrieves a half-drunk bottle of soju and opens it. He
carefully pours the soju into the cap, and with trembling
hands, lifts the tiny cap brimming with soju.
INT. MIJA'S ROOM - LATE NIGHT
It's silent except for the sound of insects.
We see the picture frames on the wall. A story spanning ten
years.
There's a Mirando Certificate with Hee Bong's picture printed
on it. It reads in English: Congratulations farmer HEE BONG!
Raise your Super Pig with love and care! Love, Lucy Mirando.
There's 6-year-old Mija hugging her Super Piglet.
There's 12-year-old Mija tightly hugging the fully grown
Okja.
Mija sleeps with a comic book open in front of her. A sound
wakes her up. She looks toward a tiny window in the corner of
the room. The window opens directly to the shed where Okja is
kept.
We see Okja's massive butt through the window. She keeps
shifting her tail, bothered by the itching in the wounded
area. The tail is too short and hardly reaches the wound.
Mija picks up a back scratcher from the floor. She attaches a
long bamboo stick to the end and sits in front of the tiny
window. She yawns as she pokes the stick through the window
and scratches the area around Okja's wound.
Mija begins to doze. She closes her eyes.

18.
EXT. STREAM, MOUNTAIN - DAY
MUNDO PARK (39) hikes up along the stream, covered in sweat.
Dressed in a suit and tie, he carries a bag that bears the
'Mirando Korea' logo. He stops for breath, and looks down the
mountain behind him. He takes out his phone. The signal is
poor, and he holds up his phone at various angles before
finally getting a bar and dialing.
Hello?

WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.)

MUNDO
(Into the phone)
Where are you? What's taking you so
long?
WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.)
(Out of breath)
We're all so out of shape. And Dr.
Johnny is being... somewhat
difficult.
MUNDO
(Surprised)
Dr. Johnny? But he's so much fun on
TV!
WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.)
(Thinly)
Right. On TV. But not in the water.
Water?

MUNDO

WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.)
He dove into the water saying he
couldn't stand the heat. Now he
won't come out.
(quietly)
Aw, disgusting. I think he’s doing
a secret piss.
EXT. FRONT YARD, MIJA'S HOUSE - DAY
Hee Bong stands at the faucet and pours water into a bucket.
He turns off the faucet almost as soon as he turns it on.
Still thinking he poured too much, he pours off a little into
the basin before handing the bucket to Mundo. Mundo gulps
down the water, thoroughly covered in sweat.
Mija washes Okja in the front yard.

19.
HEE BONG
(quietly)
I thought a bunch of you were
coming.
Mundo glances down the hill.
MUNDO
They're coming.
MIJA
(calling over)
It's nice to see you, Uncle Mundo.
Why are you here?
Mundo steals a glimpse at Mija.
MUNDO
(silently mouthing)
You didn't tell her?
Hee Bong looks away without answering. Mundo looks
frustrated. He walks over to Okja. Mija claps and gives a
sign to Okja, who obediently sits on the ground. Mundo
removes the small black box on Okja's ear and unlocks the
waterproof casing. He opens it to reveal various computer
chips and SD card slots.
He removes the SD cards and plugs them into his laptop.
Numbers and graphs showing data about Okja's health abound on
the screen: "Blood Pressure," "Temperature," "Heart Rate."
The clean, design-conscious interface of the "Mirando Super
Pig Health/Growth Management" software.
Mija looks over Mundo's shoulder, lustily eyeing his brand
new Macbook when...
We suddenly hear someone SHOUT in English.
JOHNNY
Fuck me!
(panting)
All right. I'm here. I'm fucking
here, goddamn it.
Hee Bong, Mija, and Mundo all turn their heads. A large man
struggles up the steep incline, bitching and moaning all the
way. This is Dr. JOHNNY WISEMAN.
MIJA
(eyes wide)
It's that guy! From TV!

20.
She runs excitedly to Hee Bong - leaving Okja at the back of
the yard.
MIJA (CONT'D)
(to Hee Bong)
It's him, right? From Magical
Animals!
JOHNNY
You...
(panting)
You just had to...
(panting)
... drag me all the way up to this
fucking mountain top.
MIJA
(To Hee Bong)
He came to meet Okja even though
she isn't in the competition any
more! He must think Okja is that
special!
Mundo looks uneasy.
Johnny suddenly notices Mija. Then he is abruptly back to his
panting and bitching.
JOHNNY
All the other Super Pigs were on
flat land, accessible by car.
Japan's Super Pig was about a five
minute drive from the airport. I
notice that you leave the fucking
mountain top Super Pig to the end
because you knew the climb would
rile me. Well, guess what? I'm
riled.
Johnny's companions stand around awkwardly. There's JENNIFER,
the Marketing Director from Mirando HQ (30s, American). She
wears a DSLR over her neck. And there's a Korean TV crew CHANG (35), the cameraman, and CHOI (26, female) the
interpreter/assistant.
Choi looks back and forth between Johnny and Hee Bong, trying
to smile the awkwardness away.
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
Well, can someone at least bring me
some water? Given that I am about
to be filmed for fucking
television?

21.
Choi RUSHES over to the faucet and begins to pour.
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
Not sparkling water. I don't want
to belch my way through the
broadcast.
CHOI
I don't think they have sparkling
water here.
(to Hee Bong)
Excuse me, sir, if you don't mind.
Dr. Johnny's a bit thirsty from the
hike.
But Johnny spots Hee Bong's green soju bottle. He stomps over
and snatches it up.
Soju...

JOHNNY

Before Hee Bong can react, Johnny cracks open the bottle and
downs the soju in one swig.
HEE BONG
Ah, I was saving that...
Johnny lets out a refreshed, drunken sigh. Hee Bong looks on,
devastated. Mija stifles her laughter.
Johnny spots Okja for the first time. As he does his
personality changes totally - he looks INCREDIBLY EXCITED.
JOHNNY
There she is!
CHOI
This is Okja!
JOHNNY
She's wonderful.
He rushes over to Okja and begins caressing her body. This is
real, touching enthusiasm.
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
(softly)
Just perfect!
(furiously, to Chang the
cameraman)
Well, fucking film me! You can't
fake these emotions.

22.
CHOI
(yelling at Chang)
Film him!
Chang hurriedly switches the camera on and dances around,
fishing for the right angle. Jennifer snaps away on her DSLR.
JENNIFER
(to Choi)
Get him his doctor's coat!
Choi hurriedly retrieves a white doctor's coat from her bag.
It has the Mirando logo emblazoned on it. She scurries over
to Johnny and helps him into it.
Johnny continues to caress Okja - her well-developed muscles,
faultless skin, and taut curves, his expression one of awe.
JOHNNY
(to the camera)
Ten years ago twenty-six local
farmers in twenty-six far-flung
countries were each given a super
piglet. This year I've traveled to
each of the twenty-six farms to
meet the Super Pigs and decide
which one will be invited to the
BEST SUPER PIG FEST in New York
City, where they'll be unveiled to
the world!
MIJA
(to Hee Bong)
What's he saying?
JENNIFER
Shhh! They're filming!
Johnny looks at Hee Bong with sincere respect, giving him a
big thumbs up.
JOHNNY
You've done an incredible job.
Hee Bong doesn't need a translator to understand. He holds up
his thumb. Jennifer is ecstatic. This is exactly what she
wanted.
JENNIFER
(to Chang)
Pan from Johnny to the old man!

23.

Pan!

CHOI
(to Chang)

Chang pans from Johnny to Hee Bong.
JENNIFER
(to Johnny)
This is it! The moment of mutual
trust between Mirando's very own
Dr. Johnny and the esteemed local
farmer.
JOHNNY
(to Hee Bong)
She's truly exceptional.
HEE BONG
(a thick Korean accent)
Ssank you so much.
JOHNNY
How did you do it? What was your
method?
Choi translates. 'Uh…' Hee Bong thinks. A brief silence as
everyone watches Hee Bong.
HEE BONG
I just... uh, let her run around is
all.
Hee Bong laughs. Choi translates.
JOHNNY
(to the camera)
He just let her run around! How
beguiling!
(beat)
I'm not supposed to do this... I
mean I'm supposed to go back to
America and examine all the data
before making my decision and yada
yada yada... But...
Johnny winks at the camera.
JOHNNY (CONT’D)
(dramatically)
Jennifer? Two medals please.
Chang pans to Jennifer as she takes out two 'Best Super Pig'
medals and hands them to Johnny.

24.
Johnny puts one medal over Hee Bong's neck and another over
Okja's neck.
Okja BLOWS in Johnny's face, covering his face with drool.
Johnny responds with his trademark UPROARIOUS LAUGH.
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
(to Okja)
We have our winner! Ready for the
festival in New York City?
MIJA
What's going on?
JOHNNY
One more medal please!
Jennifer hands another medal to Johnny. Johnny walks over to
Mija.
JOHNNY (CONT’D)
A special medal for a special lady
who I’m sure helped raise the Super
Pig too in her own special way!
Johnny ceremoniously puts the medal over Mija’s neck.
JOHNNY (CONT’D)
Get some cutaways of the pig!
Chang dutifully does. After he's gone, Johnny talks quietly
to Mija.
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
I'm sorry I was kinda grumpy when I
first arrived on your farm. Being a
television presenter can be
stressful.
Mija looks blank - she has no idea what he's saying.
As Chang gets cutaways of Okja, Mundo tries to squeeze into
the frame.
Hey! No!

JENNIFER

With a hand gesture, Jennifer shoos Mundo out of the shot.
Mundo lingers awkwardly. He walks over to Hee Bong and
WHISPERS something in his ear.

25.
JOHNNY
(still talking to Mija)
I always have to be 'on'.
Especially now I find myself the
'face of the Mirando Corporation'!
How did that even happen?!
Hee Bong grabs Mija's hand and takes her to the corner of the
yard.
What?

MIJA

HEE BONG
I... Let's go visit your mom and
dad up there.
MIJA
Now? Why? I want to watch this.
HEE BONG
They appeared in my dream last
night, said they missed you.
Hee Bong pulls the reluctant Mija uphill.
HEE BONG (CONT’D)
(pointing to the group)
They’ll be here for a while. Come
on.
EXT. CEMETERY - DAY
The sun shines on two burial mounds lying side by side in the
quiet woods. Hee Bong and Mija pluck weeds and dust off the
tombstone.
MIJA
I can't remember their faces...
Hee Bong looks at Mija with pity. He sighs.
HEE BONG
It's been so many years. Just the
two of us, living here in the
mountains.
MIJA
(cold)
Not two. Three.
HEE BONG
Sure! Okja too. Our little fatty.

26.
Silence. Hee Bong takes out a box from his pocket and opens
it. Inside the box is a gold pig, the size of an adult fist.
Mija regards it quizzically.
MIJA
What's that?
HEE BONG
A gold pig. 100% real gold.
Mija, confused.
HEE BONG (CONT'D)
So pretty, don't you think? In the
old days the elders would give this
gold pig to their daughters as a
wedding gift. Take it. It's yours.
MIJA
Why are you giving me a gold pig?
Hee Bong hands the gold pig to Mija.
his chin.

He points downhill with

HEE BONG
Well, you're not getting married,
but... since Okja will be leaving
us and going far away...
You can
keep this gold pig instead of her.
What?

MIJA

Mija stares blankly with the gold pig in her hands, still not
understanding.
HEE BONG
They're here to take Okja.
Okja?

MIJA

HEE BONG
Yeah. The competition's nearly
over. So they're taking all the
Super Pigs back to the company.
MIJA
But Okja's ours. We bought her from
them. You sent them the money!
HEE BONG
That...
(turning away)
(MORE)

27.
HEE BONG (CONT'D)
It didn't work out so well. I
couldn't buy her. That's why I
bought this pig instead. This gold
pig...
MIJA
(disbelieving)
No...
HEE BONG
We can't do anything about it.
Especially not now. They said that
Okja was selected as the best pig.
They have big plans for her in
America...
MIJA
America...?
HEE BONG
(nods)
She'll be spending the night in
Seoul, and tomorrow she'll be on a
plane to America. She's a celebrity
now!
(laughs)
Going all the way across the
Pacific!
Hee Bong lets out an exaggerated laugh as he carefully
searches for Mija's reaction. Mija is in utter shock.
HEE BONG (CONT'D)
(sternly)
Mija! You're nearly a grown woman,
and to be honest I wasn't too keen
on seeing you playing with that pig
all day. You should go to the town,
maybe meet a boyfr...
Mija throws the gold pig at Hee Bong's foot and rushes down
the mountain.
EXT. MIJA'S HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON
Mija runs out of the trees and arrives at the house to find
it completely empty. The dirt in the yard is wildly printed
with footprints. We can picture how Okja must have been
dragged away. The hairs stand on Mija's body.
OKJA!!!

MIJA

28.
Mija shouts at the top of her lungs. Her voice echoes along
the massive ridges of the mountain but goes unanswered. Mija
begins to run - with the urgency of a sprinter.
EXT. FOREST - LATE AFTERNOON
Mija runs down the mountain with great speed and athleticism,
having grown up roaming these hills. She runs her legs off through the trees, over the rocks, and through the air across
the stream. The branches scratch and scar Mija's face but she
continues running, gaining speed.
But Okja and her escorts are nowhere to be seen.
EXT. BEGINNING OF HIGHWAY - SUNSET
Mija stands at the point where the highway begins. She looks
far ahead at a sedan and a large container truck - just dots.
Mija breathes heavily, exhausted from her run. A tear forms
in her eye. The truck containing Okja rounds the bend and
disappears to the other side of the mountain.
INT. MIJA'S HOUSE - NIGHT
CLOSE ON a large cauldron sitting on top of a fire hole,
steam rising from it. Hee Bong opens the lid, and we see a
whole chicken inside the boiling water. Hee Bong adds
cinnamon, ginger, and vetch to the pot. He hears someone
entering and pokes his head out of the kitchen. He sees Mija
crossing the yard limply, eyes swollen from crying and cheeks
streaked with dirty tears. Mija stomps past Hee Bong and
towards her room, scattering the chickens away.
INT. MIJA'S ROOM, MIJA'S HOUSE - NIGHT
Hee Bong pokes his head inside the room. He carefully opens
his mouth.
HEE BONG
You must be hungry. I made your
favorite - chicken stew.
No answer. Mija can't seem to put a stop on her emotions.
She sobs as she undresses. Hee Bong becomes embarrassed and
turns his head, but Mija doesn't care. She continues to take
off her pants and her socks.
HEE BONG (CONT'D)
Go clean up, and let's have some
chicken stew.
(MORE)

29.
HEE BONG (CONT'D)
I put in all the herbs that are
supposed to be good for you.
Mija continues to sob as she removes a training suit from her
drawer. She puts it on along with fresh socks. Hee Bong looks
at her curiously. Mija takes out a red fanny pack from the
drawer.
HEE BONG (CONT'D)
What are you doing?
Mija still doesn't answer. Her face is a grotesque mess of
tears and snot. She puts the fanny pack around her waist.
HEE BONG (CONT'D)
Where do you think you're going?
Seoul...
What?

MIJA
HEE BONG

MIJA
I'm going to bring Okja home.
HEE BONG
Are you crazy? Seoul? In the middle
of night? Do you even know how much
it costs to go to Seoul?
Mija picks up a large piggy bank from the top of the chest.
She raises it high and throws it to the floor with surprising
strength. The piggy bank shatters into pieces, unleashing a
vast sea of coins. Hee Bong gasps.
Mija continues to sob as she sweeps the coins into her fanny
pack and pockets. There are a few bank notes in there too.
She bites them between her lips.
Hee Bong comes into the room and tries to stop her, but Mija
throws him to the floor.
Hee Bong has had enough. He stands and begins frantically
shoving the coins under the furniture with his feet. He looks
ridiculous. And it's pointless. Mija has already filled her
fanny pack. She zips it up and heads fast towards the door.
HEE BONG (CONT'D)
Don't you dare leave this room!
Mija turns and stares at him.

30.
HEE BONG (CONT'D)
Look. I miss Okja too.
Mija's eyes instantly swell with tears at the thought of
Okja.
HEE BONG (CONT'D)
But she's an animal. They all have
to go sometime.
Hee Bong grabs a permanent marker from Mija's desk and starts
drawing lines over the photograph of Okja - the one where
she's being hugged by Mija. With rough strokes, he divides
Okja's body parts like a butcher's meat chart.
HEE BONG (CONT'D)
Blade shoulder, loin, spare rib,
hock. This is what she is!
Mija cries even louder - this is deeply disturbing to her.
She pushes Hee Bong away and runs out into the windy front
yard.
Hee Bong runs after her and manages to grab her.

No!

MIJA
(yelling)

As Mija yells, the bank notes she was biting between her lips
accidently fly away in the wind. Hee Bong instinctively
throws himself toward the money.
Mija uses the opportunity to run away, dashing into the dark
woods.
Hee Bong belatedly realizes his mistake and runs after her but she is GONE. He breathes heavily as he stands in the
black windy forest, the bank-notes clenched in his fist.
MIJA - !

HEE BONG

Hee Bong's voice echoes throughout the woods. Instead of
Mija's answer...
A cacophony of CITY NOISES begin to crowd our ears.
INT. SUBWAY TRANSFER TERMINAL, SOMEWHERE IN SEOUL - DAY
As the NOISE reaches a crescendo, we see a wide staircase
filled with SUBWAY PASSENGERS transferring between lines.

31.
Black heads filling the SCREEN move in a single direction.
One of the heads turns and looks around - Mija.
INT. PLATFORM, SUBWAY STATION - DAY
Mija stares hopelessly at the large subway map on the wall.
The subway lines are intricately spun like spider webs. They
resemble Mija's tangled hair and her utterly confused state.
She somehow identifies her destination on the sprawling map
and takes out a coin from her fanny pack, inserts it in the
ticketing machine. The fanny pack is a promotional gift from
Mirando. Mija makes note of the Mirando Korea address and
phone number printed on the inside.
EXT. ENTRANCE, MIRANDO KOREA OFFICES - DAY
A white, clean interior brightly lit by fluorescent lights.
Mija stands up against the glass door and peers inside. We
see an empty front desk with the Mirando logo and a potted
tree that has the exact silhouette of the logo.
The lobby is silent until... CLICK, CLICK. A skinny
RECEPTIONIST clicks her high heels into the lobby and returns
to her seat.
Mija tries to make eye contact, but the Receptionist looks
down at her smartphone and doesn't look up. Mija - feeling
invisible - KNOCKS on the glass.
The Receptionist finally raises her head and sees Mija's wild
appearance. She points to a guest phone attached to a stand
in front of the entrance.
RECEPTIONIST
(mouthing the words)
Use the phone...
Suppressing her anger, Mija picks up the receiver and presses
the 'call' button. We hear upbeat music as the automated
voice speaks in Korean/English.
AUTOMATED VOICE (V.O.)
Welcome to Mirando Korea! If you
would like to know the number of
the department you are looking for,
press #7. If you would like to
speed-dial your party, press *24 to
switch to voice recognition mode.
Mija presses the button.

32.
AUTOMATED VOICE (V.O.)
After the beep, please clearly
state the name of the person you
are looking for.
MIJA
Mun, Do, Park.
AUTOMATED VOICE (V.O.)
Sorry, I did not hear you. Please
clearly state the name.
Mija holds the receiver with both hands.
MIJA
Mun! Do!! Park -- !!!
AUTOMATED VOICE (V.O.)
Sorry! I did not hear you. Please
clearly state the name...
Mija screams her lungs off, hoping the Receptionist will
notice her frustration. The Receptionist gets up and casually
walks into the back office.
MIJA
(yelling)
Wait!
The Receptionist disappears without answering. The front desk
is empty again.
Mija closes her eyes and takes a deep breath to calm herself.
She suddenly begins walking backwards. She spins the fanny
pack to her side and fully zips up her training suit. She
stands at the opposite end of the long hallway, staring at
the Mirando Korea entrance. Suddenly...
She begins to run...
She charges ahead with explosive speed. Upon nearing the
entrance, she accelerates even more and throws herself into
the glass door.
THUMP! Mija's body collides with the door, and the entire
glass wall vibrates from the tremendous impact.
The door remains intact while Mija bounces off and tumbles on
the floor.
BEEP! BEEP! The security system is activated. The
Receptionist hurries out to the lobby. She sees Mija on the
floor, MOANING.

33.
RECEPTIONIST
(startled)
Oh my God! Are you okay?
Looking down at the fallen Mija, the Receptionist presses the
button of the automatic door. The moment she does, a spider
web begins to spread on the glass, and soon the huge glass
door begins to come down in a cascade of shards.
The Receptionist SCREAMS as tiny, sharp particles pour onto
the floor. Mija immediately leaps up and charges into the
office, bumping into the Receptionist on the way. The
Receptionist grabs onto the tree that looks exactly like the
Mirando logo as she tumbles onto the floor. Dirt pours out of
the pot, revealing the bizarre-looking root of the tree. We
realize it was a plastic tree all along.
INT. MIRANDO KOREA OFFICES - DAY
Mija runs frantically down a MAZE of LONG, EMPTY FLUORESCENTLIT CORRIDORS. It's creepy and corporate - the stuff of
conspiracy theory nightmares.
MIJA
(yelling)
Uncle Mundo! Okja! Mundo!
The maze finally opens into a large, brightly lit office.
She sees rows and rows of desks - BUT NOT ONE EMPLOYEE.
She runs through the cubicles, looking around.
MIJA (CONT'D)
(yelling)
Uncle Mundo! Okja!
MIJA'S POV:
A poster on the wall, advertising Mirando's Super Pig
project. The copy 'Harvest For The World' accompanies a
picture of hundreds of fully grown Super Pigs feeding on the
grassy acres of the Mirando corporate Ranch in Arizona.
To Mija the sight is deeply unsettling. It's like seeing
hundreds of Okjas.
At that moment, we hear a SQUEAL. Is it the real Okja?!
Mija runs toward the sound but is caught by an ELDERLY
SECURITY GUARD. She throws him off, sending him into the
ground. Now it's the RECEPTIONIST'S turn. She leaps at Mija but Mija evades her with great athleticism, jumping over
desks and cubicles.

34.
Mija runs into a conference room and locks the glass door.
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - CONTINUOUS
Mija runs to the window.
MIJA'S POV:
A PARKING LOT, invisible to the outside world. Mundo and
UNIFORMED MIRANDO EMPLOYEES are dragging a chained and roped
Okja towards a large trailer.
The Mirando uniforms are surprisingly BRIGHT and COLORFUL and
VIBRANT looking.
Okja is desperately resisting - but to no avail.
EXT. PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS
The OFFICE EMPLOYEES have vacated their desks to form a
gallery in the parking lot. They're all busy taking selfies
with Okja in the background.
MUNDO
(yelling at them)
Hey, put your selfie sticks away!
This is classified! Those are
direct orders from HQ in America!
The Employees reluctantly lower their selfie sticks.
MUNDO (CONT'D)
I don't want to see any of those on
Instagram.
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS
MIJA
(banging on the window)
Okja!!! Okja!!!
It's like the scene in The Graduate where Ben bangs on the
window at the wedding - "Elaine! Elaine!" - except Mundo and
the Mirando Employees don't notice Mija. The glass is too
thick and soundproofed. We can see she's yelling, but they
can't hear a thing.
Mija's eyes are alight with fury. The Security Guard and the
Receptionist are unlocking the door when Mija charges toward
them and throws herself at the door, knocking them to the
ground.

35.
With fierce determination, Mija runs toward the elevator...
EXT. TRAILER - PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS
As the Uniformed Employees struggle to tie the violently
resisting Okja in place, Mundo puts his face against Okja's
and raises a selfie stick. He makes his best cute face as he
takes a picture.
INT. CAB, MIRANDO TRUCK - MOMENTS LATER
Mundo climbs in the passenger seat.
MUNDO
(To the driver)
Let's go.
The driver is KIM (24). The truck begins to move with a huge
roar. Mundo scans Kim up and down, suspicious. Slight frame,
baby face, distracted eyes. Something about him is just
...off.
MUNDO (CONT'D)
You've got a commercial driver's
licence, right?

Huh?

KIM
(Nonchalantly)

MUNDO
A licence to drive a heavy goods
vehicle. A Class A truck?
Kim smiles blankly without answering. He steers the truck
roughly out of the parking lot and into the outside world.
As he does, we see Mija bolting out of the main entrance.
EXT. STREETS NEAR MIRANDO KOREA - DAY
Mija runs with wild desperation as the truck disappears into
the distance. But it soon slows down to merge onto a larger
road and Mija accelerates with all her might until she
reaches a point where the road continues downhill but the
sidewalk remains level with the buildings. She runs alongside
the truck until...
...she boldly jumps and - THUMP - lands on the roof of the
trailer.

36.
INT. TRAILER, MIRANDO TRUCK - CONTINUOUS
THUMP. Okja looks up at the sound. She SQUEALS and hikes up
her head. The Uniformed Employees also look up curiously.
Okja can feel Mija's presence above her. She touches the
ceiling with her face as she continues to SQUEAL.
EXT. TRAILER ROOF, MIRANDO TRUCK - CONTINUOUS
Mija balances herself on the moving trailer. Through the
fluttering strands of her hair she sees an overpass
approaching.
INT. CAB, MIRANDO TRUCK - CONTINUOUS
Mundo sees the overpass. It seems very low. He looks over at
Kim, who drives, still looking blank.
MUNDO
What's the height of this truck?
Kim gives Mundo a listless, nonchalant look.
KIM
Uh, they did tell me...
uh...

it was,

Still, Kim doesn't slow down.
The overpass approaches fast. The sign that indicates the
height comes into view: 4.2 meters.
Mundo stares at Kim.
EXT. TRAILER ROOF, MIRANDO TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

37

Mija drops to her stomach. She lies flat and closes her eyes.
The truck blasts through.
INT. CAB, MIRANDO TRUCK - CONTINUOUS
KIM
I guess they said it was less than
4.2 meters.
Mundo wipes his sweat, relieved.

37.
EXT. TRAILER ROOF, MIRANDO TRUCK - CONTINUOUS
Mija sits up. She made it. Just.
INT. CAB, MIRANDO TRUCK - CONTINUOUS
Kim continues to floor the gas pedal with a blank face.
Mundo looks ahead and sees another overpass quickly
approaching. This time the sign reads 3.9 meters.
MUNDO
(Yelling)
The height! Can. You. Remember?
Kim slowly shakes his head and indicates his foggy memory.
KIM
(mumbling)
I can't... They made me drink a
lot at the staff dinner last
night...
The overpass approaches. Mundo turns white. He instinctively
shrivels his body like a squid on a grill.
EXT. TRAILER ROOF, MIRANDO TRUCK - CONTINUOUS
Wind batters Mija's face. She squints and looks ahead at the
overpass. Her muscles tense as she instinctively senses
danger.
INT. CAB, MIRANDO TRUCK - CONTINUOUS
Mundo is too paralyzed to speak. Kim floors the pedal with
that dead expression on his face. The 3.9 meter overpass
approaches fast.
INT. TRAILER, MIRANDO TRUCK - CONTINUOUS
Okja lets out a piercing SQUEAL - as if calling for Mija.
The Uniformed Employees cover their ears.
EXT. TRAILER, MIRANDO TRUCK - CONTINUOUS
As Okja SQUEALS, Mija runs toward the back of the trailer.
The overpass is about to slam the back of her head when...

38.
...Mija jumps and hangs onto the rear door handle of the
trailer.
SPARKS fly as the trailer roof scrapes against the underside
of the overpass. The horrible sound of metal scratching
against concrete, Mundo's scream, and Mija's shouting
overwhelm our ears at once.
Dangling from the handle, Mija BANGS on the rear door of the
trailer.
INT. TRAILER, MIRANDO TRUCK - CONTINUOUS
The Uniformed Employees stand up to investigate the banging
when they get caught between Okja's massive body and the
trailer wall. They scream in pain as Okja twists her gigantic
body towards Mija.
Mija and Okja cry for each other.
I/E. MIRANDO TRUCK - CONTINUOUS
MUNDO
What was that noise?
But Kim is preoccupied by something different - something
VERY STRANGE occurring O.S. His eyes widen.
(Beat)
What?

MUNDO (CONT'D)

Mundo follows Kim's startled stare to the side of the truck.
MUNDO (CONT'D)
(yelling)
TERRORISTS?!
A black semi is driving purposefully alongside the Mirando
truck. The two occupants - both staring at Mundo - are
wearing BLACK SKI-MASKS. One wears a SUIT underneath, the
other a casual JACKET.
JACKET
(broken Korean)
I'm not terrorist... Nice meet you.
But his strange accent, along with the wind noise and roar of
the trucks engines, make it impossible for Mundo and Kim to
understand him.

39.

What?

MUNDO

JACKET
I don't want hurt you. I don't like
fighting. Stop car!
MUNDO
(to Kim)
What the hell are they saying?
JACKET
I said I don't like fighting. Come
on, guy. Just cooperate.
(to the Suit)
Shit. Fucker doesn't even
understand my Korean...
The Suit just looks at the Jacket - his eyes are a curious
color.
The Jacket rolls up the window. He fixes his ski mask and
abruptly turns the handle. SLAM.
The black semi rams into the side of the Mirando truck.
Mundo screams like a girl.
The Mirando truck gets sandwiched between the black semi and
the underpass wall. Sparks FLY.
Nearby DRIVERS react with horror as the two mammoth trucks
duel. Horns blare everywhere.
Amidst the chaos the Suit never loses his composure,
remaining cool, silent.
The Jacket abruptly turns the steering wheel and delivers the
final blow. The Mirando truck smashes against the wall.
The violent shaking makes Mija lose her grip on the rear door
handle. She tumbles onto the asphalt and screams in pain.
The cars behind her screech and turn to avoid her - adding to
the chaos.
The Mirando truck is finally forced to a STOP.
The black semi's trailer door opens and FOUR more people
dressed entirely in black and wearing ski-masks come running
out - although ONE of the four is noticeably THINNER and
SLOWER than the others. They carry various tools. One carries
a bolt cutter.

40.
The Uniformed Mirando Employees open the trailer door and are
immediately ambushed by the Black Assailants.
The Assailant with the bolt cutter severs the chains binding
Okja to the trailer. The Mirando employees watch him,
compliantly.
Mundo and Kim are trapped in the cab - sandwiched between the
wall and the black semi. Mundo desperately tries to open the
door.
The Suit leaves the black semi and walks towards Kim and
Mundo. They watch his approach with curiosity. He begins
shaking a SPRAY PAINT CAN in his hand.
He sprays black paint onto the spotless white front end of
the truck. He seems to be writing something.
MUNDO
What the...
But Kim finds the whole situation amusing.
MUNDO (CONT'D)
Are you smiling?
KIM
(Nonchalantly)
I'm just watching the destruction
of Mirando property.
Kim laughs.
Behind the truck, the Black Assailants drag Okja towards
their trailer.
Okja desperately looks around for Mija. But she can't see her
anywhere.
Traffic is at a standstill. DRIVERS in the opposite lane have
stopped their cars to take pictures and record video of this
bizarre sight.
Suddenly, among the pileup of cars, a girl ARISES. It is
Mija. She limps to a car and climbs onto its roof. Her body
is covered in grazes but she is undeterred.
She takes a deep breath and blows hard on her WHISTLE. Okja
suddenly turns her head as she is being dragged away.
Okja and Mija finally see each other.

41.
Despite her injuries, Mija dashes toward Okja. But Okja
cannot move. The Black Assailants have her locked down with
ropes.
Okja tips her body and rolls over the Black Assailants. They
scream - crushed by the weight.
Okja and Mija beeline toward each other. They REUNITE,
OVERJOYED. Like a gunslinger jumping onto a running horse in
a Western, Mija grabs the rope tied to Okja's body and
swiftly jumps onto her back.
Okja pulls an abrupt U-turn and runs toward the open road
with Mija on her back.
The Suit gives a hand signal to the Black Assailants. They
regroup under the Suit's command and board the truck. They
chase after Okja.
MUNDO
(To Kim)
Follow them!
KIM
(mumbling)
Fuck it. What do I care? I’m
leaving this shit country soon.
MUNDO
What did you say?
KIM
(pulls keys out of
ignition and tosses them)
You know what? I DO have a
commercial driving license, but my
temporary contract doesn’t cover me
for workplace injuries.
Everything finally makes sense for Mundo. He opens the door
and runs out.
MUNDO
You want a workplace injury
compensation package?
Mundo starts RUNNING in the direction of Okja.
MUNDO (CONT'D)
(Over his shoulder to Kim)
Then you’d better start showing
some LOYALTY to this COMPANY! And
THIS IS WHAT COMPANY LOYALTY LOOKS
LIKE!

42.
As Mundo proudly yells this he loses his footing and SLAMS
into a PARKED CAR - knocking himself UNCONSCIOUS.
EXT. UNDERPASS EXIT - MINUTES LATER
The point where the underpass joins the open road. Okja runs
at full speed with Mija on her back while the black semi
chases them, quickly closing the gap. The Uniformed Employees
belatedly join the chase carrying tranquilizer guns. Mundo
holds onto his head as he tags along.
MUNDO
(to the Uniformed
Employees)
Hurry your asses up! Whoever gets
them first, I'll recommend for a
permanent contract! With full
welfare benefits! No bullshit!
The Uniformed Employees consider this, and look at each other
awkwardly. But only momentarily as they start running at full
speed.
We see police cars approaching from across the intersection
with sirens blaring. Mija quickly changes direction and rides
Okja toward an underground passage.
INT. UNDERGROUND PASSAGE / UNDERGROUND SHOPPING CENTER
Okja enters the passage and stumbles down the concrete steps.
She’s never climbed stairs before and is anxious about it.
PEDESTRIANS scream and scatter at the sight of the giant pig.
MIJA
Sorry... Get out of the way!!
The Suit, the Jacket, and a few of the black assailants
follow Okja into the underground. The Pedestrians panic even
more at the sight of threatening men in ski masks. The
Uniformed Employees follow in with tranquilizer guns, adding
to the pandemonium.
INT. UNDERGROUND SHOPPING CENTER - CONTINUOUS
SHOPPERS and SHOP OWNERS scream in horror. Shoes, makeup,
clothes and mannequins are blasted into the air as Okja blows
past.
A PART-TIME STUDENT dressed as a PINK PIG distributes flyers
in front of a newly opened snack bar decorated with colorful
balloons. Dance music blares in the background.

43.
He sees the enormous pig hurtling toward him. He begins
running for his life - the huge pig face still over his head.
As he runs, he desperately fishes for an angle with his
smartphone - trying to film a video of Okja and himself.
As Okja makes a sudden turn, her foot gets caught in a
clothing rack jutting out of the corner. She falls on top of
glass plates displayed before the adjacent store. A loud
CRASH. Mija is thrown off Okja's back, landing head first on
the floor.
The Jacket breaks from his group and rushes to Mija's side,
propping her up. Mija looks dazed from the impact.
JACKET
Hey! You okay?
The Suit turns around to see Uniformed Mirando Employees
aiming their tranquilizer guns at Okja!
He picks up one of the panels displayed in front of the
nearby frame shop. The tranquilizer dart flies through the
air and sticks on the panel. THUNK. The other assailants also
pick up panels, and the subsequent barrage of darts all fall
on panels printed with the images of celebrities.
While the Uniformed Employees hurriedly reload their guns,
the Suit gives a quick hand signal to his group. The black
assailants begin charging toward the Employees like
terrorists in an ambush.
The Suit calmly walks over to the injured Okja and grabs her
ankle. He is caring as he touches Okja, having a natural ease
around animals. He immediately locates the broken piece of
glass lodged in Okja's foot. He quickly and painlessly plucks
it out - like when Mija removed the chestnut bur from Okja's
foot back in the mountains.
Mija watches, impressed.
MIJA
Who are you guys?
INT. UNDERPASS - CONTINUOUS
ALF...

KIM
Animal Liberation Front?

Kim searches 'A.L.F.' on the Google browser of his
smartphone. He looks at the spray-painted "A.L.F" on the
front of the Mirando truck.

44.
INT. UNDERGROUND SHOPPING CENTER
Instead of answering, the Jacket lifts his t-shirt and shows
Mija a TATTOO - a balaclava-wearing, angel-winged Animal
Liberation Front member embracing a lamb in his arms.
Mija stares blankly at the tattoo as POLICEMEN come running
from the opposite end of the passage with tear gas guns
drawn.
The group - along with Okja and Mija - stand and run. The
police give chase.
The Jacket sees a passage that leads to a garage. He directs
the other members towards it and shouts into the phone.
JACKET
Underground garage! Zone 3!
INT. UNDERGROUND GARAGE - CONTINUOUS
The group bolt out of the door just as the black semi speeds
toward them from the opposite side.
The back doors of the trailer are already open and Mija jumps
in first. She gives a sign to Okja, who climbs in with great
difficulty. The A.L.F. members push Okja's behind with their
combined strength. Again, ONE seems frailer than the others.
Once Okja is inside, the Assailants climb aboard.
The Police finally arrive and haphazardly fire their tear gas
guns, but to no avail. The black semi speeds away, the back
doors still swinging open, the policemen running pathetically
after them.
Suddenly a man squeezes through the group of Policemen and
leaps to the front with tremendous speed. It is none other
than MUNDO, with the UNIFORMED MIRANDO EMPLOYEES running
behind him.
Mundo chases the semi with fierce determination. The A.L.F.
members watch with mild curiosity.
Okja suddenly bends her body and perks up her ears as she
turns to Mija. Mija stares in disbelief.
Now?
Mija sighs.

MIJA

45.
MIJA (CONT'D)
Well, I guess you've been holding
it in for a long time.
Mija gives Okja the sign.
Okja begins pooping. The scale is beyond epic.
Her tail spins like a propeller as she unleashes a veritable
'shit storm.' Mundo has nearly closed the gap when he's
BOMBARDED with countless pieces of shit.
Two A.L.F. members look on as Mundo cries in horror.
A.L.F. MEMBER 1
I never tire of the way they shit.
A.L.F. MEMBER 2
Could watch it all day.
The black semi reaches the exit. It smashes through the gate leaving Mundo a dejected shit-covered blob in the distance.
INT. TRAILER - CONTINUOUS
Mija hugs Okja's face tightly. The A.L.F. members - still in
their ski-masks - watch them.
MIJA
(Whispering)
I'll never leave you again.
JACKET
(Translating)
I'll never leave you again.
MIJA
I’m taking you back to the
mountains.
JACKET
(Translating)
I’m taking you back to the
mountains.
Mija glances suspiciously at the Black Assailants in their
ski-masks.
FEMALE A.L.F. MEMBER
Stop with the creepiness, K.
JACKET
What? I’m not being creepy.

46.
FEMALE A.L.F. MEMBER
You don’t think that’s creepy?
Translating everything she’s saying
in your balaclava and your eerie
man’s voice?
JACKET
(Thinly)
The mission is no longer as we’d
planned it because the girl showed
up so I’m providing the team with
unfolding intel. And BY THE WAY.
This isn’t my “eerie man’s voice”.
It’s my VOICE.
SUIT
(With quiet authority)
Shhh!
The bickering A.L.F. members dutifully shut up. The Suit
walks over to Mija. He crouches to her eye-level and takes
off his balaclava. He is JAY - good-looking, serious (30s).
As he removes his balaclava, the other A.L.F. members take
off theirs. They're all younger than Jay, in their 20s. Jay
introduces each member to Mija. Jacket is K (Asian). The
woman is RED. The two others are men - BLOND and SILVER. Each
are named after the color of their hair. Silver looks sweet,
but socially awkward, very thin. Red and Blond look restless.
JAY
...And my name is Jay.
K TRANSLATES for Mija - word-for-word.
MIJA
I’m Mija. And this is Okja.
K
(chuckling)
Mija. Okja. Those are like oldfashioned names. That’s sweet.
Jay gives K a “so what” look. Awkward silence.
JAY
We are animal lovers. We rescue
animals from slaughterhouses, zoos,
labs. We tear down cages and set
them free. This is why we rescued
Okja.
Mija bows politely.

47.
MIJA
Thank you so much.
Jay speaks in an overly formal manner as he fixes his
necktie.
JAY
For forty years our group has
liberated animals from places of
abuse.
Jay gestures to K. K removes a mini-tablet from his jacket
and shows it to Mija.
CLOSE on the mini-tablet. OLD ARCHIVE FILM of the A.L.F.
smashing down doors with hammers and crowbars and rescuing
the caged animals inside.
JAY (CONT'D)
We inflict economic damage on those
who profit from their misery. We
reveal their atrocities to the
public. And we never harm anyone human or non-human. That is our
forty year credo.
THUMP. Jay turns at the sound of something falling and sees
Silver barely being held up by Blond. He looks pale, sickly.
JAY (CONT'D)
Are you okay, Silver?
(to Blond)
He didn't eat anything even today?
BLOND
(shaking his head)
He's still trying to leave the
smallest footprint he can on the
planet Earth.
SILVER
(weakly)
All food production is
exploitative.
BLOND
(exasperated)
What about tomatoes?
SILVER
Ripened with ethylene gas.
Transported in trucks.

48.
JAY
I admire your conviction, Silver,
but your pallid complexion worries
me.
Jay turns to Mija.
JAY (CONT’D)
How long have you and Okja lived
together?
MIJA
Since I was four.
At this the group let out a low sigh.
JAY
Do you know where she was being
taken?
MIJA
To America. The Best Super Pig
Fest.
JAY
Yes. But she was being taken
somewhere else first. Mija. You
need to prepare yourself.
Everything you believe you know
about Okja is a lie.
Mija instinctively reaches out to touch Okja.
JAY (CONT'D)
Okja's other destination was...
K presses the screen on his mini-tablet. We see PHOTOGRAPHS
of a WAREHOUSE. It looks ABANDONED. But it's surrounded by
barbed wired fences and AMERICAN SECURITY GUARDS.
JAY (CONT'D)
This underground laboratory in
Paramus, New Jersey. This is the
building where Okja was created.
Mija frowns - then grins.
MIJA
No, Okja was born on a ranch in
Arizona. Her mother was born in
Chile. On a beautiful farm.

49.
JAY
Okja was created in this lab. So
was her so-called 'mother'. This is
where Mirando experiment with their
genetically mutated animals.
Mija looks troubled.
JAY (CONT'D)
They're looking to develop the
breed that will generate them the
biggest profit. In that very lab.
You and the other local farmers
across the world are just
promotional devices for them - just
a picturesque backdrop.
Backdrop?

MIJA

SILVER
They make everything seem cosy. But
it's not cosy. It's never cosy.
JAY
Mirando know their consumers won't
eat mutant GM foods. So ten years
ago their 'beautiful' head
psychopath Lucy Mirando - who by
the way became CEO by forcing out
another psychopath named Nancy
Mirando in a fucked-up coup
d'état... Anyway, they went into
the laboratory and dug around
amongst all the disfigured,
misshapen creatures to unearth the
prettiest ones.
As K quietly translates, he shows Mija more photographs of
the laboratory's innocuous-looking exterior.
JAY (CONT'D)
And then - big fanfare - she sent
them around the world.
K pulls up a file on his mini-tablet. It's VIDEO of Lucy's
press conference from ten years ago. We see the photographs
of the SUPER PIGLETS being handed to farmers across the
world. We see Lucy on the stage...
REPORTER
When do we get to see the big pigs?

50.
For a tiny moment, Lucy looks like she doesn't know what to
say. Then she recovers.
Ten years.

LUCY

K pauses the video - a freeze-frame of Lucy, a triumphant
glint in her eye.
JAY
You know why she said ten years? To
consolidate power. The longer the
project's duration, the longer
she'd get to be at the top, running
things.
RED
And those were the ten years you
spent with Okja.
Mija stares blankly, her face crowded with conflicting
emotions.
JAY
And now the ten years are nearly
up. They've been frantically
breeding super pigs and soon the
supermarkets will be filled with
their flesh and organs. Dog food,
hot dogs, bacon...
K translates clearly for Mija.
JAY (CONT'D)
Our plan is to put a stop to their
project by exposing the lab and its
crimes against animals. But to do
so, we need video from inside footage of the horrible atrocities
being committed in the lab. And
there's a problem.
Mija is now completely immersed in the story. She looks at
him intently.
JAY (CONT'D)
The security is impenetrable. Other
groups have tried and failed to get
in.
(Beat)
But there is a way. Although we
will only go ahead with it if you
give us your consent.

51.
At this, K stops translating and stares at Jay. So do the
other A.L.F. members.
Jay nods.
BLOND
(protesting)
If this kid doesn't give her
consent, we're going to abandon the
mission?
JAY
(to K)
Please don't translate. Hold on.
(to everyone)
We do not harm any non-human or
human. This little girl is Okja's
family and I will not harm her by
forcing a mission upon her that she
does not consent to.
RED
We have to abort just because some
man from the 1970s wrote a fucking
'credo'?
BLOND
Tradition doesn't make a movement
strong.
SILVER
(coughing violently)
WE make a movement strong.
Jay looks around coolly at his riled up colleagues. He
doesn't have to raise his voice. His quiet charisma instantly
subdues everyone. The trailer, once again silent.
JAY
(Calmly)
If that's how you feel call
yourself something else and not the
A.L.F. and don't come around here
anymore.
The members look abashed by Jay's words. Jay quietly gazes
into Mija's eyes.
JAY (CONT'D)
In order to expose Mirando we need
video from inside the laboratory...
K hesitates briefly before continuing to translate.

52.
JAY (CONT'D)
And this is where your Okja comes
in. The Mirando scientists are
dying to get their hands on her at
their underground lab. Their star
super pig! They’re desperate to put
her through a slew of tests.
(Beat)
Which is why we've made this.
K removes a small, black electronic device from his pocket
and shows it to Mija.
JAY (CONT'D)
It looks exactly like the black box
on Okja's ear, right? But this one
has a transmitter that will
wirelessly send their video feed to
us. We want to replace the device
on Okja's ear with this, so Okja
can send us a live feed from inside
the laboratory.
K
(in Korean - to Mija)
It will be like Okja's hidden
camera show!
Mija is still confused.
MIJA
You want to send Okja to America?
To this laboratory?
JAY
(nodding)
I'm sorry. That was indeed our
plan. Rescue Okja, replace the
black box, and let Mirando retake
Okja.
Mija can't believe what she's hearing.
JAY (CONT'D)
But don’t worry. They won't hurt
Okja. They wouldn't dare. She needs
to be perfect for their beauty
pageant. Whatever tests they'll do
on her in there will need to be
harmless.
Mija nods but looks concerned.

53.
JAY (CONT'D)
You have to trust us. We've been
planning this mission for a long
time. We have a detailed plan on
how to rescue her from the event in
New York City. We promise to bring
her back to you.
We hear POLICE SIRENS growing closer in the background. Jay
carefully puts a hand on Mija's shoulder.
JAY (CONT'D)
If our mission succeeds we'll be
able to shut down Mirando's Super
Pig project completely. We'll be
saving millions of Super Pigs like
Okja from death.
Jay looks straight into Mija's eyes, pleading earnestly. Mija
looks straight back.
JAY (CONT'D)
But we won't do it without your
approval.
Mija looks at Jay with a grave expression. The police sirens
in the distance get louder...
JAY (CONT’D)
What is your decision?
K translates the last question in a solemn voice.
MIJA
I'm going back to the mountain with
Okja.
She says it just like that - bluntly and squarely. In Korean,
it sounds even more blunt and square. K tries to hide his
surprise, speechless. Jay and the other members eagerly await
his translation.
K takes a deep breath before saying...
K
She agrees to the mission.
Neither Mija nor the A.L.F. members notice K's lie. The
members applaud vigorously. Jay gives her a warm, sincere
hug, deeply moved. Mija stands there, not knowing what just
happened.
Thank you.

JAY

54.
The SIRENS are closer than ever.
The members put on their balaclavas. K opens the small side
door of the trailer. Cold wind rushes in.
He yells into his cell phone:
Go!!

K

He takes out a Ziplock bag from his pocket and puts his minitablet and iPhone in the bag. The members form a single file
before him and deposit their own cell phones into the bag.
EXT. RIVERSIDE EXPRESSWAY - EVENING
The sun has nearly set. The black semi races through the dark
riverside road. We see police cars and Mirando security cars
chasing after it with SIRENS blaring.
The semi steers toward the railing, so close that we plainly
see the dark river below. While other A.L.F. members hesitate
nervously, Silver limps to the door and fearlessly jumps off
the truck.
SILVER
Aaaaah - !!
INT. TRAILER, BLACK SEMI
Motivated by Silver, Blond and Red dive off after him. Jay is
the last one to put his cell phone in K's Ziplock bag. He
turns to Mija.
JAY
Till we meet again.
Jay swiftly dives out of the truck. K winks at Mija as he
closes the Ziplock bag bulging with cell phones.
EXT. RIVERBANK, HAN RIVER - EVENING
A BIKER riding along the bank looks up in surprise when a
black figure jumps from the expressway above and SPLASHES
into the water. SPLASH, SPLASH. Columns of water go up, and
the black figures subsequently swim out of the water one by
one. JOGGERS stop and watch the bizarre spectacle.

55.
EXT. RIVERSIDE EXPRESSWAY / TRAILER, BLACK SEMI - EVENING 57
Once K jumps, the A.L.F. member who was driving stops the
truck and runs out. He throws his outdated folder phone into
the river and himself jumps off the expressway. SPLASH.
The police cars and Mirando security cars surround the black
semi. POLICEMEN run out of their vehicles and look down at
the river, defeated. The circular ripples from the last
splash slowly disperse.
You swim?

POLICE 1

POLICE 2
Uh-uh. Never.
While the Police look for a way down to the bank, the
Uniformed Mirando Employees open the door of the trailer.
Headlights and red police lights flood inside the trailer to
reveal Okja and a wide-eyed Mija standing side by side. Mija
tries to hide her confusion and anger, but her eyes are moist
with tears.
AMERICAN NEWS ANCHOR (V.O.)
The Animal Liberation Front...
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM, MIRANDO COMPANY HEADQUARTERS - DAY

58

ON THE TV: Amateur footage of A.L.F. members with bolt
cutters and other tools ambushing the Mirando truck in the
underpass.
AMERICAN NEWS ANCHOR (V.O.)
...hasn't been in the headlines for
a number of years, but they are
back in the spotlight after today's
extraordinary events.
16 people - including Lucy Mirando, Frank, Johnny, and
Jennifer - sit around the table and watch the news. They are
silent, their expressions grave. The scene looks exactly like
the photo of Obama, Hillary and the national security team
watching the Bin Laden raid in the White House situation room
- right down to the gestures and the facial expressions.
The only unruffled person among them is head assistant Frank,
who sits in the middle in a leisurely, presidential manner.
AMERICAN NEWS ANCHOR (V.O.)
The group seems to have been highly
organized.

56.
ON THE TV: We see KIM - the Mirando driver - being
interviewed in front of the truck spray-painted with the
"A.L.F." sign. He speaks surprisingly good English.
KIM
(smiling)
They were fast, organized, and on
point, like ninjas. No way a salary
man from Mirando could take them.
(laughs)
Mirando is completely fucked!
Completely fucked!
A BEEP censors Kim every time he says "fucked," but he says
it with such emphasis that it is impossible not to read his
lips.
The Mirando employees bat their eyes nervously, worried about
Lucy's reaction.
ON THE TV: A repeat of the news footage of A.L.F. members
running in formation.
EXECUTIVE 1
Look at that one!
He points at the blurry figure of Silver, lagging behind.
EXECUTIVE 1 (CONT'D)
Get some exercise, you dick!
He laughs and glances at Lucy for approval. The tension is
palpable.
FRANK
I wouldn't worry too much, Luce.
The A.L.F technically failed.
EXECUTIVE 1
They weren't even able to take the
product.
EXECUTIVE 2
This is just a kerfuffle over
nothing. We shouldn't make a big
deal out of it.
EXECUTIVE 1
It actually means the security at
our US facilities and main office
is so airtight that they wouldn't
even think about breaking in.
That's why they went all the way to
South Korea.

57.
EXECUTIVE 2
The important thing is that the pig
is on its way to New York now.
JENNIFER
(Brightly)
Right! The Best Super Pig Fest will
continue as planned!
Their eyes flicker nervously towards Lucy - who has thus far
said nothing. Finally, she stirs.
LUCY
(quietly)
I know what they call me. They call
me a psychopath.
JENNIFER
YOU'RE not a psychopath! THEY'RE
the psychopaths, right, Ms.
Mirando? They're narcissists.
Jennifer glances around the conference room, pleased with
herself.
LUCY
Do narcissists wear balaclavas?
FRANK
Oh, crazy radicals have been
calling us psychopaths since the
'60s! You're a psychopath! Your
sister's a psychopath! Your daddy
was a psychopath!
We barely notice, but Frank has a CELLPHONE concealed in his
hand. We see the name "Nancy Mirando" on the screen. He's
surreptitiously pointing it in Lucy's direction.
LUCY
Daddy WAS a psychopath, Frank.
That's not an unfair slur. "What
did YOU do in the War, Daddy?" "I
manufactured the napalm that made
everyone's skin fall off!" And he
calls ME an idiot loser?
FRANK
In fairness to your father when he
called you an idiot loser...
Yes?

LUCY

58.
FRANK
You had just signed up for a two
year course in California called
Unleash Your Calling.
LUCY
At a highly respected Institute for
the Advancement of Human Potential.
Where many forward-thinking CEOs
go.
Lucy's anxiety level is rising. She's beginning to display
subtle OCD symptoms - repeating phrases and movements.
LUCY (CONT'D)
And if you can't see the
correlation between the advancement
of my human potential and the fact
we're currently on the cusp of the
biggest product launch in the
history of the food industry then I
don't know what! You know how I
spent my time at the Institute?
VISUALIZING new and better ways of
doing business! While SISTER was...
what was the name of the lake that
exploded?
FRANK
Moose Lake.
LUCY
While my sister was dumping so much
toxic waste into Moose Lake it
EXPLODED... the only lake ever to
explode, well done, Nancy... I was
visualizing how to turn the most
hated agrochemical company in
America into the most likeable
miracle pig rearing company. And
it's WORKING! It's WORKING! It was
WORKING until last night. Until
last night the synthesis between
New Mirando and Old Mirando was
impeccable!
Lucy holds both of her hands in the air.
LUCY (CONT'D)
I took science...
Lucy manipulates her left hand into a deformed claw.

59.
LUCY (CONT'D)
And nature...
Lucy waves her right hand softly, mimicking ocean waves or a
field of crops blowing gently in the wind.
LUCY (CONT'D)
And I synthesized.
She brings both hands together, mimicking a flower blooming.
LUCY (CONT'D)
And EVERYONE loved it. Remember
what the New York Times called our
Super Pigs? "Intriguing." Slate:
"Lucy Mirando is pulling off the
impossible. She's making us fall in
love with a creature that we're
also excited about eating." These
are journalists who never write
about pigs! They never write about
pigs! But they wrote about OUR
pigs. Ten years of planning! We're
on the cusp of launching a product
that will feed MILLIONS! And what
happens? We fall victim to
terrorism. And somehow WE'RE the
ones that come out looking bad?
JENNIFER
(brightly)
Oh, we don't look too bad!
LUCY
We don't? Rewind!
A beat. Jennifer nervously presses rewind - knowing Lucy is
right about how bad they look.
ON THE TV: Footage of the moment of Okja's recapture.
Uniformed Mirando Employees drag Okja back to the Mirando
truck. We see Mija crying and desperately trying to stop
them.
AMERICAN NEWS ANCHOR (V.O.)
Following the failed kidnapping,
Mirando Company employees were
securing their super pig when a
young girl suddenly stepped in and
tried to stop them.
ON THE TV: Uniformed Mirando Employees - the guys Mundo had
promised full time contracts to - pull Mija away. They're
rough, violent.

60.
AMERICAN NEWS ANCHOR (V.O.)
The girl was later revealed to be
the granddaughter of a local farmer
selected by Mirando CEO Lucy
Mirando to...
Pause.

LUCY

Jennifer does.
ON THE TV: FREEZE-FRAME of the Uniformed Employees roughly
pulling the poor, crying Mija away.
LUCY (CONT'D)
And there it is! The image that's
going to destroy us! Who are those
idiots?
Lucy points at the Uniformed Employees.
LUCY (CONT'D)
Find out and fire them.
JENNIFER
(Brightly)
Sure! Leave it with me!
Jennifer looks delighted and relieved that others are getting
the blame.
LUCY
Abusing that adorable girl in the
uniforms I personally designed!
What are we famous for?
A silence, before it dawns on the Executives that Lucy isn't
asking a rhetorical question.
EXECUTIVE 1
Super pigs?
LUCY
Holding indigenous farmers in high
esteem! Who are we violently
manhandling right there on TV?
EXECUTIVE 2
(beat)
The granddaughter of an indigenous
farmer.

61.
LUCY
Is that the reason why she's
crying?

Yes?

EXECUTIVE 1
(cautiously)

LUCY
It's one of two reasons she's
crying. What's the other reason?
EXECUTIVE 2
(beat)
We're taking away her super pig?
LUCY
We are shoving her best friend into
a truck! That's going to kill us.
Right there. That image. We're
dead.
Unbeknownst to Lucy, Frank has his phone pressed to his ear,
listening. He puts it down. Suddenly, he pushes his chair
back with a loud SQUEAK. He casually saunters over to the
coffee machine and makes himself a capsule coffee. The
machine pisses out coffee with a loud, obnoxious WHIR.
FRANK
Lucy... May I say something?
Frank looks over at Lucy as he smells his coffee.
FRANK (CONT'D)
The girl. You're thinking of
inviting her to New York, aren't
you?
A light bulb goes off in Lucy's head.
LUCY
I was just about to say that!
FRANK
Yes, of course.
(nods)
You'll invite her to The Best Super
Pig Festival and...
LUCY
(cutting him off)
A moving reunion! The Best Pig and
the adorable farmer girl forced to
part but reunited on our stage.

62.
FRANK
Of course!
(smiles)
Brilliant, Lucy.
LUCY
An emotional reunion, then the two
of them leave the stage. Hand in
hand. Hand in trotter!
Frank watches Lucy become more and more excited. He is more
laid back than ever.
LUCY (CONT'D)
She'll be the face of the Mirando
Company! The living embodiment of
the Mirando ideal. Young, pretty,
eco-friendly, global! She's a
godsend! Are you writing all this
down?!
Jennifer and the Executives write notes with fury.
Suddenly Johnny stands up in a HUFF.
JOHNNY
Uh. She's not the face of the
Mirando Company. I am. You don't
even know if she can DO anything
other than cry. Whereas I am much
loved all over the world!
LUCY
(With unexpected venom)
Sit down.
Johnny lets out a GASP.
JOHNNY
You're... forcing me to...
LUCY
To do WHAT?
JOHNNY
To examine my options.
LUCY
Go on then. Examine them. Are you
examining them now? Have you
finished examining them?
Lucy stares at Johnny. He sits down - his humiliation
complete.

63.
Lucy resumes her conversation with Jennifer like nothing
happened.
LUCY (CONT'D)
Get her a first-class ticket and
book her a hotel! She probably
doesn't have a passport. Get her a
passport! Don't try to force an
image on her - like what Benetton
did to those Asian girl models.
Jennifer takes notes with impossible speed, her pen a mere
blur.
LUCY (CONT'D)
No! I've got a BETTER idea! Get her
wearing a Mirando uniform. Let's
reclaim the uniform after what
those idiots did!
INT. CEO OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON
Lucy's limp body is sprawled on the sofa. Her iPhone rings.
The words Nancy Mirando flash up on the screen.
LUCY
(Muttering)
Oh fuck off.
Lucy ignores it. But the phone keeps ringing. Finally Lucy
picks up.
Hey Nance!
Hey Luce!

LUCY (CONT'D)
NANCY (V.O.)

LUCY
I guess you saw the news. Don't
worry. It's under control.
NANCY (V.O.)
What news? What are you talking
about?
LUCY
(beat)
Oh. Nothing.
(beat)
So, how's London? Do you ever get
time to go to fun places like the
London Eye and the London Dungeon?
(MORE)

64.
LUCY (CONT'D)
I never have a free minute, but I
figure running Mirando Global is
more taxing than running Mirando
UK. Oh! You should try Madam
Tussauds! Have you been there yet?

No.

(beat)

NANCY (V.O.)

LUCY
I heard such an interesting thing
about Madam Tussauds. When the
celebrities become has-beens they
just melt down the heads and turn
them into someone more fashionable.
Saddam Hussain is Justin Timberlake
now. Anyway. How ARE you?
NANCY (V.O.)
I just phoned to wish you luck. 10
years! Your dream project is
finally about to come to fruition!
Everything you've worked towards!
LUCY
Yeah, it's exciting!
NANCY (V.O.)
It must be, right? The basket
containing all of your eggs! Every
single one of your eggs! You must
be SO excited.
The blood drains from Lucy's face. Nancy can still terrify
her.
NANCY (V.O.)
You must be SO excited!
INT. POLICE STATION, SEOUL - EARLY MORNING
Mija crouches inside the police station. A few REPORTERS
surround her, shoving their microphones into her face.
REPORTER 1
They're going to charge you with
property damage and obstruction of
justice. Did you know that?
Mija looks blank.

65.
REPORTER 1 (CONT'D)
Animal Liberal Front, right?
People are saying you're a member.
Is that true?
Mija stays silent, her head lowered. The Reporter comes
closer.
REPORTER 2
It says on the Internet you have an
A.L.F. tattoo on your arm.
Reporter 2 tries to lift up her sleeve, but Mija slaps his
hand away. A FEMALE REPORTER who'd been watching from behind
jumps in and tries to forcibly pull up Mija's sleeve. Mija
resists mightily. As she grapples with the Female Reporter,
we see someone hurtling into the station in the background
with a worried face - Hee Bong.
Hee Bong squeezes in between the Reporters and grabs Mija's
arm. He raises the sleeve himself.
HEE BONG
Let me see!
The Reporters briefly step back at Hee Bong's apparent
aggression. Hee Bong checks Mija's arms, neck, everywhere.
HEE BONG (CONT'D)
Tell me where you were hurt. Are
you okay?
With that, the floodgates open. Mija puts her arms around Hee
Bong and begins to bawl. Hee Bong embraces her tightly. The
Reporters quickly realize who Hee Bong is and shove their
mics toward him. FLASHES explode.
HEE BONG (CONT'D)
Stop with the cameras... She's just
a baby.
REPORTER
You're her guardian, aren't you?
Go away...

HEE BONG

Hee Bong hides Mija with one arm while pushing away the
Reporters with the other. He is never violent but puts up a
formidable fight as he fends them off. He is old but strong.
HEE BONG (CONT'D)
Be civil, will you? Don't test me
now...

66.
The Reporters are backing away when one of them suddenly dips
down and POPS a flash up at Mija's face. Hee Bong violently
SLAPS the camera away, stunning the Reporter.
HEE BONG (CONT'D)
Sorry! That's an expensive camera.
As soon as he apologizes he returns to roughly pushing the
reporters. The grappling match becomes more and more heated.
DETECTIVES and POLICE OFFICERS belatedly swarm the scene.
The station quickly descends into chaos.
Suddenly, a familiar voice rings throughout the station.
MUNDO (O.S.)
Mi - Ja - !
Mundo is walking into the station. Choi - the Mirando Korea
translator from the mountain - follows him with a flower
basket. Wearing a radiant smile, Mundo walks past bewildered
faces and hands the flower basket to Mija. It is lavishly
decorated with Mirando company colors.
I/E. CONVENIENCE STORE - EARLY MORNING
The store is brightly lit by fluorescent lights. Mija stands
at the window-side bar and eats cup ramen. The flower basket
lies next to her. Mundo and Hee Bong and Choi smoke in front
of the store.
HEE BONG
So all the damage in the shopping
center... Mirando will pay for that
too?
MUNDO
How many times do I have to tell
you? HQ is paying for everything.
The main office in America.
HEE BONG
The glass door in your office Mija
shattered. That too?
MUNDO
That's what you're worried about?
They are inviting her out to
America. She'll be doing Mirando
commercials pretty soon.
Having finished her ramen, Mija walks out toward Hee Bong and
Mundo. She hurls the Mirando flower basket at Mundo's feet.

67.
MIJA
Forget commercials. Get her on the
phone right now!
MUNDO
(startled)
Phone? Who?
MIJA
I need to talk to Okja. I need to
find out how she is.
Choi stares blankly.
HEE BONG
They do that... you know, talk to
each other. They’ve always done it.
CHOI
(scrambling)
Okja's probably on the plane right
now. She won't be able to answer.
OVER Mija's seething face, we hear the deafening noise of an
airplane.
As upbeat MONTAGE MUSIC begins, we...
CUT TO:
EXT. JFK INT'L AIRPORT - DAY
We see a large passenger airliner from behind as it touches
down on a landing strip. The wheels touch the ground with an
ear-splitting noise.
EXT. STORAGE HANGAR, JFK - DAY
As the MONTAGE MUSIC continues, we see large CARGO being
unloaded from the back of the plane. We follow one of the
containers - a large metal cage. We see Okja crouched inside.
MIRANDO HQ EMPLOYEES and PRIVATE SECURITY CONTRACTORS swarm
the cage as soon as it hits the tarmac.
I/E. CAGE, MOVING TRUCK - DAY
Okja sits inside the cage with a sullen expression. She
nervously blinks her eyes.

68.
OKJA'S POV: Through a small opening on the side, she sees the
unfamiliar scenery of New York passing by. The fake blackbox/video transmission device is also pointed outside.
I/E. A.L.F. SEDAN, NEW YORK STREETS - DAY
The A.L.F. team is crowded into the Sedan. Brief static as
K's laptop begins receiving the video signal from Okja.
K
Got it! The signal's good.
(to the members in the
backseat)
We're seeing what Okja's seeing.
K sits in the passenger seat with his laptop connected to a
satellite receiver. Through the front windshield, we see the
Mirando truck about 50 meters ahead of the sedan.
RED
(driving)
Hey, pretty good resolution. Can't
wait to see inside the laboratory!
BLOND
Brought to you live from Mirando's
secret underground lab. We invite
you to the mecca of genetic
modification!
Blond giggles as he imitates a travel channel host. He keeps
pushing a sandwich into Silver's hand, who only picks at it
and looks through its contents. Jay sits behind K and quietly
regards the laptop screen.
JAY
(barely containing his
excitement)
In this moment only the five of us
know what the whole world will soon
know. This mission has the
potential to surpass ...my God...
we may surpass even the Silver
Spring Monkey liberation in terms
of epoch-defining A.L.F.
operations! We are ushering in a
new era!
The members cringe at Jay’s pompous way of talking. An
awkward silence. K yells to Red, trying to change the mood.

69.
K
Slow down. Let's put some distance
between us and them. I want to test
how far the signal reaches.
EXT. R.F.K BRIDGE - DAY
The MONTAGE MUSIC escalates. The East River glistens under
the sun. A vast AERIAL VIEW: The Mirando truck crosses the
bridge, surrounded by escort vehicles. We see the A.L.F.
sedan far behind.
INT. INCHEON INT'L AIRPORT - DAY
The MONTAGE MUSIC continues.
Mija wears a passport/ticket pouch over her neck, the ones
given to unaccompanied minors. Hee Bong takes out the gold
pig from his pocket.
HEE BONG
Take this. In case there's an
emergency. You might need money.
Make sure you hide it well.
Mija takes it, hugs Hee Bong. Mundo hurries Mija toward the
departure gate, where reporters are gathered. Choi hands Mija
a large bouquet.
MIJA
Where’s Okja now? Why won't you let
me talk to her?
MUNDO
(forced smile)
We'll call her soon! Let's take a
picture first.
A shoddy event obviously organized at the last minute.
'Congratulations - Winner of the Best Super Pig World
Competition. Joo Mija Send-Off Ceremony.' The Mirando Korea
BRANCH PRESIDENT and the DIRECTOR of the National Livestock
Cooperative have already taken their places under the banner.
Mundo shoves Mija between them. Mija forces a toothy smile as
cameras FLASH.
MIJA
(to Mundo - through her
forced smile)
You want me to be nice in New York?
Get me Okja on the phone.

70.
INT. MARKETING DEPARTMENT, MIRANDO HQ - DAY
The MONTAGE MUSIC continues.
CLOSE on a screen: We see an amateur You Tube VIDEO of Mija
riding Okja in the Seoul supermarket. It’s had 126 million
views.
A team of young MIRANDO MARKETING EMPLOYEES sit in front of
their computers and eagerly watch their boss, Jennifer.
JENNIFER
(Brightly)
And... GO!
All at once, the Mirando Marketing Employees begin
enthusiastically typing.
CLOSE on their screens: They're typing messages on TWITTER
and TUMBLR and FACEBOOK and YOU TUBE and INSTAGRAM - an
orchestrated corporate endeavor to flood the Internet with
Mirando positivity:
"Yo, I heard the hot You Tube girl riding the giant pig is
coming to NYC!!!" "Cute!" "Totally my type!" "She's gonna be
at the Mirando Best Super Pig Fest in NYC!! AWESOME!" "LOVE
HER!!!" "The hot girl and Dr. Johnny and the giant pig
together in NYC!!! SO COOL!!!"
INT. PLANE - NIGHT
Mija sleeps, her body awkwardly folded in her first-class
seat. A FEMALE CABIN ATTENDANT stops to pull up her blanket.
"" book
She removes the “Smile: Beginner's Conversation Englishî
book
from her hand and puts it in the seat-back pocket. Mija
sweats from a nightmare. Her eyes twitch under the lids.
INSERT - MIJA'S DREAM / FLASHBACK
Grainy B & W footage. POV of Mija sitting in the backseat of
a compact car:
Okja - at this point a piglet - looks up from Mija's embrace
and tries to lick her face/the CAMERA. In the front seat, we
see the back of Mija's DAD, who turns toward Mija, but whose
face is washed featureless by the strong backlight. We also
see the silhouette of Mija's MOM in the next seat. Her mouth
is open wide as if to scream, but we can't hear anything.

71.
Through the front windshield, we see a large truck crossing
the yellow line of the narrow mountain road and hurtling
toward Mija's car. Okja the piglet SQUEALS in the foreground.
CUT TO:
The car is crashed in the woods on the steep incline
bordering the road. Okja crawls out of the broken window and
looks inside the car with a worried look. We see five-yearold Mija bleeding, her eyes out of focus. Okja climbs toward
the road as fast as she can.
CUT TO:
Grainy footage from a fixed high angle CAMERA... seems to be
traffic camera footage from the road:
Okja climbs onto the road and begins SQUEALING frantically
toward the cars as they whiz by dangerously close to her. One
car stops, and a YOUNG MAN steps out. Okja continues to
SQUEAL as she leads the man down to the woods. The man
discovers the wreckage and hurries down the incline after
her.
The upbeat MONTAGE MUSIC changes into...
I/E. LABORATORY ENTRANCE, PARAMUS, NEW JERSEY - EVENING
...DARK, OPPRESSIVE MUSIC.
CLOSE ON Okja's terrified face as she's dragged into the
dilapidated warehouse - the front for the laboratory. The
lights are dim and the atmosphere ominous.
I/E. NEARBY MOTEL ROOM - CONTINUOUS
The A.L.F. team is gathered around the laptop, eyes anxiously
on the screen. Red opens the large bag and takes out a round
satellite dish.
K connects the satellite dish to the receiver. With the dish
up, static decreases and the image becomes clearer.
JAY
Are we recording?
Of course.

K

We begin to see the inside of the secret laboratory through
Okja's POV. The A.L.F. members all lean in.

72.

Oh my God.
INT.

SILVER

LABORATORY - WHITE ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Okja's POV: We see small cages lined on either side of the
hallway, each containing tiny Super Piglets: A piglet with a
hideously large tumor, one with red, veiny eyes and necktwitching tic symptoms, one dragging its deformed hind
legs...
Victims of genetic experimentation. They SQUEAL loudly when
they see Okja. Okja also lets out a heart-wrenching SQUEAL as
if commiserating with the piglets in the cages.
The seasoned MIRANDO LABORATORY WORKERS move Okja toward a
steel door, pulling on her leash and poking her from behind
with stun batons. The Worker in the front opens the door to
reveal an immaculate white room. Inside the room is none
other than Dr. Johnny Wiseman! He greets Okja
enthusiastically, dressed in a white gown.
Okja!

JOHNNY

He runs his hands over Okja's body.
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
So we reunite. In this wretched
laboratory no less.
Johnny lovingly caresses Okja's face, clearly drunk. Behind
him, we see a hideous male Super Pig twisting its gigantic
body. It is about 1.5 times the size of Okja.
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
Let me introduce you to each other.
Alfonso, say hello to Okja! Okja,
Alfonso! Your boyfriend! Haha!
Johnny drags Okja toward ALFONSO, the male pig. As the steel
door shuts with a loud CLANK, the MONTAGE MUSIC abruptly
stops.
Oppressive SILENCE fills the screen.
INT. MOTEL ROOM - CONTINUOUS
Heavy silence. The faces of the A.L.F. members are lit by the
ghostly light of the computer screen.

73.
They are seeing Okja's POV, but because one side of the
'White Room' is covered entirely by a mirror, they see
everything Okja is going through.
Johnny and the Lab Workers drag Okja toward Alfonso, who is
increasingly excited at the sight of her. Okja's fearful
SCREAM pierces the computer speakers.
SILVER
Can you turn down the volume,
please?
K lowers the volume, his face filled with dread.
RED
(Sobbing)
We should never have sent her
there.
Stop it!

BLOND

RED
We knowingly sent her into that
chamber of horrors...
BLOND
No we didn't! We didn't know they'd
hurt her! That, you know, they’d
put her through a ...mating.
RED
We suspected. Come on. We all
suspected.
Okja's SCREAM and Red's sobbing become blended in a sorrowful
harmony. The male members sit in uncomfortable silence. K
looks especially distraught. Jay quietly approaches Red and
puts a hand on her shoulder.
JAY
Don't cry. We can't be weak.
BLOND
Right. This is all the more reason
to stay focused and stick to our
plan.
JAY
The little girl trusted us with
Okja. We have to respect her
bravery.
K cannot keep it to himself any longer.

74.
K
She never agreed to send Okja.
What? All eyes fall on K. Red stops crying.
BLOND
What did you just say?
K
When she was in our truck... She
said she was "taking Okja back to
the mountains."
Jay and the members are speechless.
K (CONT'D)
(sighs)
I lied.
RED
You little piece of shit! I knew
something was up in that truck!
JAY
(Quietly)
Why did you lie?
K
I don't know. In that moment... I
just couldn't stop the mission. It
was the coolest mission ever.
K stares at the cool A.L.F. tattoo on his wrist. Jay gets up
from the sofa and walks over. He gently lays a hand on K's
shoulder.
JAY
K, it's okay. Look at me.
As soon as K looks up - POW - Jay drives a fist across his
face. Before the other members can even react, Jay pushes K
into a corner and begins pummeling him mercilessly.
JAY (CONT'D)
I hold you dear to my heart - as I
do all creatures - but you have
dishonored the forty year history
and meaningful legacy of the Animal
Liberation Front. You have betrayed
the great minds and brave fighters
who preceded you.
Even as he unloads a savage beating, Jay maintains his formal
manner of speech, speaking like he's at an academic seminar.

75.
JAY (CONT'D)
You have besmirched a forty year
tradition.
Jay withdraws his fists and gathers his breath. He looks down
at K.
JAY (CONT'D)
Never mistranslate. Translations
are sacred.
Jay throws a bag at K.
JAY (CONT'D)
From this moment on you are no
longer a member of the A.L.F. You
are permanently banned. Get out.
However, since it's vital that we
proceed with our mission, we will
have to return your equipment after
its completion. Consider this your
last contribution to the A.L.F.
K wipes the blood off his lips, dejected, disgraced. He puts
the bag over his shoulder and begins to walk out. He stops by
the table and adjusts the position of the satellite dish.
When he does, the image on the laptop instantly becomes
clearer.
INT. LABORATORY - WHITE ROOM - LATER
CLOSE ON a green soju bottle. Johnny picks it up and gulps it
down. Alfonso isn't in the room anymore. Okja is sprawled on
the floor, lifeless. A dreadful silence. The heavily
inebriated Johnny takes the remainder of the soju and walks
over to Okja. He crouches before her.
JOHNNY
You want some?
He pours some on his hand and brings it to her mouth. Okja
closes her nostrils, repulsed by the smell. Johnny doesn't
care. He just slurps it up himself. He licks every last drop.
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
It makes you feel better.
Okja is completely drained from the brutal mating session
with Alfonso, barely moving. Johnny also lies on the floor,
resting his head on his arm, face to face with Okja.

76.
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
The first time is the hardest.
It'll get easier.
Johnny lets out a melancholy sigh.
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
Oh, this is a unspeakable place. I
know, I know. And this room isn't
even the worst. There are worse
rooms out there.
(Beat)
Lucy Mirando told me I wasn't to
harm you in here. At least not
visibly. She wants you perfect for
her big telecast!
Johnny starts to rise.
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
But when a woman humiliates a man
in front of his colleagues, a man
is inclined to make his own
decisions.
Johnny suddenly picks up a piece of long metallic equipment
from the floor.
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
So there is one last thing. This.
Johnny laughs. He fits the tip of the equipment with a
needle.
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
This... It's called a biopsy gun.
What it does is...
(laughs)
It's nothing really. It's used on
beef... I mean live cows... To
check the marbling...
A phone RINGS inside the room. Johnny presses the
speakerphone button, and we hear Jennifer's annoyingly highpitched voice.
JENNIFER (V.O.)
Hi, Johnny. Is Okja with you? Will
you put her on the phone?
What?

JOHNNY

77.
JENNIFER (V.O.)
(with a laugh)
Our precious local farmer princess
insists that she speaks to her on
the phone. Whatever... She says you
should lift her ear and put the
receiver underneath.
JOHNNY
You're on speakerphone.
We hear a SNAP as Mija snatches the phone from Jennifer. We
hear her voice through the speaker.
Okja!!!

MIJA (V.O.)

The previously lifeless Okja opens her eyes and leaps to her
feet upon hearing Mija's voice.
OKJA
Eeeeeeeeeehhhhhhhhhhh!!!
I/E. MOVING VAN, NEAR JFK - EVENING
MIJA
Okja - ! Are you okay?
We see the JFK terminal growing farther in the rear window.
Mija practically screams into the phone.
Jennifer and the Mirando employees cover their ears.
OKJA (V.O.)
Eeeeeeeeeeeeeehhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh!!!
MIJA
What? I can't hear you!!
INT. LABORATORY - WHITE ROOM
Johnny SLAMS off the speakerphone. Okja cries, saying
something to Mija. When the sound abruptly stops, she begins
to shift back and forth nervously. Okja's desperate dance
enrages Johnny, and he SMASHES the speakerphone on the floor.
Okja freezes. Johnny wobbles over with the biopsy gun in one
hand and a semi-translucent iPad in the other. Open on the
iPad is an app developed by Mirando for intra-company use.
When Johnny takes a picture of Okja using the app, 3-D
contours appear over the picture along with the names of meat
parts.

78.
He aims the gun on Okja's back. He pretends to stick the
needle in her skin.
JOHNNY
BANG!! Sirloin!
Okja lets out a weak GROWL.
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
The shank! Oh, yeah!
Johnny laughs as he drunkenly sways from side to side. He
touches the needle of the biopsy gun.
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
Don't worry. You won't die. I'm
just going to take a bit of your
'meat.' Of course I'm not going to
eat it. We have 'tasters' for that.
(laughs)
They're a bunch of half-wit
degenerate fucktards.
He laughs like a madman. Okja MOANS weakly.
Johnny is losing his mind, partially due to the alcohol but
mostly due to his guilt.
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
So... I'm gonna have to poke you
in five places.
He raises the gun.
I'm sorry!

JOHNNY (CONT'D)

Johnny becomes teary-eyed. His emotions swing wildly from
manic laughter to self-pitying sorrow.
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
It's gonna hurt!
(sobs)
But I can't anesthetize you! We
need to eat your meat!
Okja MOANS. Johnny weeps uncontrollably, his face a mask of
tears and snot.
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
I shouldn't be here. I'm an animal
lover. Everyone knows that about
me! And the sick shit Lucy makes us
do in here.
(MORE)

79.
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
Christ knows how many laws we’re
breaking. It makes my stomach -BANG. Johnny pulls the trigger mid-speech. Okja's leg spasms
from the sting. Her SCREAM echoes throughout the room.
INT. SOMEWHERE IN THE LABORATORY - LATER
A MAN IN A WHITE GOWN cooks meat on several frying pans laid
out in a row. Each pan is labeled with a sign: "Sirloin,"
"ribs," "Boston butt," etc. Each contains three pieces of
meat. A MIDDLE-AGED MAN, a MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN, and a TEENAGER aka the "half-wit degenerate fucktards" - approach with
forks.
Tasty.
Fuck yeah.

MIDDLE-AGED MAN
TEENAGER

MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN
It's the best I've ever had. The
best of the best!
Her exclamation is accompanied by the sound of trumpets and
drums. As upbeat MARCHING BAND MUSIC begins, we...
CUT TO:
EXT. STREETS, MANHATTAN - DAY
A bright afternoon. An enormous Super Pig balloon emerges
through the buildings. Below the balloon is a banner: 'Best
of the Best! Magical Animals Super Pig Fest!'
The scene resembles the Macy's Thanksgiving Parade. The
balloon is pulled from below by dozens of men and women in
UNIFORMS. They are followed by a MARCHING BAND and other
parade participants. People cheer and take pictures - finally
a chance to meet the famous Super Pig!
INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE MIJA'S HOTEL SUITE - DAY
Jennifer and STYLIST 1 quickly walk down the boutique hotel
hallway carrying a Mirando uniform on a hanger, fluid
STEADICAM following from behind.
Jennifer inspects the uniform, front and back.

80.
JENNIFER
What the hell is this?
We see wild cursive scrawled on the bright uniform. Hardly
couture. Messy.
STYLIST 1
That's Lucy's autograph. "Designed
by Lucy Mirando."
JENNIFER
She can't get enough of herself,
can she?
Jennifer looks tired from the weeks of rigorous event
planning, but as soon as she opens the hotel room door, she
turns her face upside down and returns to her usual
hyperactive self.
JENNIFER (CONT'D)
(brightly)
How's everyone doing?!
People busily mill about in Mija's suite. Mija is surrounded
by a MAKEUP ARTIST, HAIR STYLIST, and WARDROBE STYLIST 2 and
seems to be in some sort of stand-off involving the fanny
pack.
STYLIST 2
Do you have to wear this thing? It
looks super tacky.
Mija seems to have understood, clings tightly to the fanny
pack.
MIJA
Get lost. I’m keeping this on.
Mija's outburst startles Jennifer and the staff. A white male
employee, the TRANSLATOR, tries to calm Mija in imperfect
Korean.
TRANSLATOR
Okay, all right! It's okay, it's
okay. You can keep it.
Jennifer and the staff regard her nervously. The Translator
cautiously glances at Mija before saying...
TRANSLATOR (CONT'D)
(to the staff; quietly)
I think she understands some
English. We should watch what we
say.

81.
The Translator surreptitiously points at the "Smile:
Beginner's Conversation English" book on the table. Jennifer
and the staff glance at the book then Mija.
JENNIFER
(brightly)
Yes, yes, everything is fine! But
you have to wear this. Isn't this
uniform pretty? It's a special
edition custom-made just for you.
Look! The CEO even autographed it.
Totally rad, right?! Wow!
Jennifer continues to hype it up, but Mija is not in the
mood. She refuses bluntly.
MIJA
No! I want to see Okja first.
JENNIFER
Mija. Sweetheart! You'll meet her
on stage in just a few hours!
Wearing this very pretty uniform!
Think about how dramatic it’ll be.
As Jennifer's speech becomes more and more impassioned, a
ROOM SERVICE worker enters with a cart and begins putting
down food. Confused chatter: "Who ordered food?" "Looks
fantastic!" "Just sign for it." Garbled voices overwhelm the
suite.
JENNIFER (CONT'D)
Okja doesn't even know you're here.
If you show up on stage without
telling her, it’ll be such a great
surprise! I'm getting emotional
just thinking about it! Yay!
MIJA
(cold)
I don't care. I need to see Okja.
Right now. Or I won't cooperate
with the event.
Mija is unrelenting. A fatigue comes over Jennifer as she
listens to the Translator. She turns cold.
JENNIFER
Mija. I don't think you understand
this situation. We are the ones who
have Okja. Okay? We are doing you a
favor. Do you get it now?

82.
Mija becomes nervous. We've never seen Jennifer like this
before.
JENNIFER (CONT'D)
(smiles)
You want to go back home with Okja,
right? Then do as you're told.
Otherwise, this is what will happen
to Okja.
Jennifer removes the lid of the room service tray next to
her, revealing a deliciously cooked pork chop steak. Mija is
petrified. Jennifer holds out the uniform again.
Put it on.

JENNIFER (CONT'D)

Mija fearfully takes the uniform and goes into the suite
bedroom.
INT. BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS
As soon as she closes the sliding door, the voices recede
into the background, and a vast loneliness overcomes her.
Dust particles glow in the beam of light falling through the
curtains.
She SIGHS as she looks at the strangely designed uniform. She
glimpses something behind it - a SHADOW lurking in the
corner. Mija GASPS. The Shadow soon reveals himself to be the
Room Service Worker from earlier... and the Room Service
Worker is subsequently revealed to be JAY!
Shhh!

JAY

Mija stares at Jay, stunned. Jay quietly removes a stack of
papers from behind his back. Short English/Korean
words/phrases are written on cards the size of a small
sketchbook. Jay begins to flip through the cards in front of
Mija, kind of like Bob Dylan in his "Subterranean Homesick
Blues" video.
'SORRY.'

JAY (CONT'D)

MIJA
(mouthing)
What?
JAY
'FOR EVERYTHING.'

83.
Mija silently nods, still nervous.
JAY (CONT'D)
'WE WILL RESCUE OKJA FROM THE
STAGE.'
We begin to hear MARCHING BAND MUSIC in the far distance. Jay
flips the cards almost to the beat.
JAY (CONT'D)
'WHEN WE DO,' 'DON'T,' 'LOOK BACK.'
Mija, puzzled.
JAY (CONT'D)
'DON'T EVER LOOK,' 'AT THE SCREEN,'
'BEHIND YOU.'
Jay changes his expression slightly with each card.
JAY (CONT'D)
'ONLY,' 'LOOK AT OKJA,' 'IN FRONT
OF YOU.'
Mija still hasn't the faintest idea what he's talking about,
but Jay's dead seriousness somehow compels her to nod.
Jay nods back with a serene smile. He flips the last card
over:
JAY (CONT'D)
'A.L.F. LOVES YOU.'
Jay vanishes through the curtains. We hear him going down the
metal steps of the fire escape. Mija is left alone again in
the dark bedroom.
EXT. STREETS, MANHATTAN - DAY
Jay casually saunters out of the hotel alley and walks out
onto the large street. He changes into his suit as he walks
and joins the Super Pig Festival parade happening in the
street.
Among the dozens of people holding the lines of the giant
Okja balloon is SILVER, disguised as one of the Uniformed
Employees. He exchanges secret glances with Jay, who walks
along the sidewalk. Silver gives Jay a knowing look as he
points up at the balloon, and Jay looks up as well.
Mirando EVENT WORKERS distribute samples - Super Pig jerkies
and Super Sausages - practically showering the crowd with
them. People eat them up enthusiastically.

84.
Some of the Employees holding the chords of the balloon also
dig into the samples, giddy at seeing the brand new products.
Silver becomes nauseated by the mere sight.
A Mirando Employee marching next to him hands him a Super
Sausage sample. Finding himself with the most vile junk food
made from GM Super Pigs in his hand, Silver turns white like
a sheet. Conscious of all the Mirando eyes around, he
pretends to eagerly munch on the sausage, but he cannot get
past the stench of meat and nearly retches.
A SKINNY MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN sees this and looks down at a
sample fallen on the ground. As she crouches to pick it up,
we glimpse an A.L.F. tattoo below her slightly raised shirt.
A HIGH SCHOOL STUDENT sees the tattoo as he's walking by and
quickly checks the surroundings. He seems worried that
someone might see the tattoo. As he turns, he bumps into a
twenty-something WOMAN walking past. A black balaclava drops
from his jacket. The High School Student turns pale upon
seeing the dropped balaclava.
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENT
I'm so sorry!
The Woman just smiles and picks up the balaclava for him. As
she reaches out to give it back, she tugs on one side of her
jacket, pulling it over her t-shirt. The A, L from the word
'ALIVE' on the t-shirt connects with the F of the word LIFE
of the jacket to spell out "A.L.F."
The Student sees this and flashes a faint smile. He puts the
balaclava back in his jacket and walks toward the parade.
More and more people join the parade under the giant Okja
balloon.
INT. DRESSING ROOM, LUXURY TRAILER - DAY
A trailer parked behind the stage. Lucy sits in front of the
mirror surrounded by her Makeup Team.
The door opens, and Frank enters with a large bouquet. Lucy
smiles at Frank through the mirror.
FRANK
Here! For you!
Frank hands the beautiful flowers to Lucy.
LUCY
Thank you, Frank.

85.
FRANK
Congratulations. 10 years. An
extraordinary accomplishment.
LUCY
10 years, finally coming to
fruition.
Lucy picks up a Super Pig jerky sample.
LUCY (CONT'D)
They're just delicious. Try one.
Frank takes one from the table and eats it.
FRANK
Delicious. Beautiful.
They both munch in silence for a few moments. A proud moment
shared - their crowning achievement realized.
Lucy smells the flowers.
LUCY
They're beautiful. Your taste is
impeccable as always.
FRANK
(laughs awkwardly)
The flowers aren't actually from
me...
Oh?

LUCY

Frank hesitates. Lucy's face darkens. She stares at Frank.
Frank gives a look to the Makeup Team. They leave.
LUCY (CONT'D)
They're from Nancy?
FRANK
Yes. Nancy's here. Not in London.
LUCY
In New York? Fuck, Frank!
FRANK
She's actually been here for a
while.
Lucy becomes fretful, glances involuntarily around the
trailer.

86.
LUCY
(Hissing)
I told you to keep her away. She
frightens people.
FRANK
(smiles)
You frighten people too, Lucy.
LUCY
She REALLY frightens people. She
reminds everyone of dad.
Lucy tries not to show it, but her panic level is rising
fast.
LUCY (CONT'D)
This is mine! My project!
FRANK
She just wants to support you on
your big day. It's what we all
want.
LUCY
Support? Oh, yeah, right...
Lucy quietly regards Frank's eyes. She is now beyond panic,
actually rather calm. The MARCHING BAND MUSIC, which had
remained in the background so far, becomes loud as it arrives
in front of the trailer. The trailer thumps with the sound of
DRUMS.
EXT. OUTDOOR STAGE - CONTINUOUS
The marching band reaches a climax as the enormous inflatable
super pig floats above the stage.
The crowd GOES WILD as Johnny jumps up excitedly on the
stage. He swings his arms wildly, acting like he's conducting
the orchestra.
Johnny brings his performance to a end with a dramatic snap.
The marching band stops playing at the exact moment. A brief
moment of silence before the crowd erupts in APPLAUSE.
Johnny snatches up the microphone and yells into it like a
rock star.
JOHNNY
Magical, Magical...
ANIMALS!!!

CROWD

87.
The crowd is familiar with the drill.
JOHNNY
Now everyone knows Dr. Johnny can't
stand anything boring.
Yeah!!

CROWD

JOHNNY
Have I ever given you a boring
show?
Nooo!!

CROWD

INT. ABANDONED BUILDING - CONTINUOUS
Red sits cross-legged on the floor, constructing some weird
MECHANICAL DEVICE. She stands and looks out of the window.
RED'S POV: A little distance off, Johnny is on stage, amping
up the crowd. The Super Pig balloon hovers above the stage.
Johnny's voice booms throughout the plaza.
EXT. OUTDOOR STAGE - CONTINUOUS
JOHNNY
Ten years ago twenty-six farmers
from lands far away were each given
one magical super piglet. This year
I met each of these twenty-six
wonderful people...
On the large screen behind Johnny, we see a VIDEO MONTAGE of
Johnny meeting fully grown Super Pigs and their Farmers in
picture perfect settings - New Zealand, Sweden, South Korea,
Italy...
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
...to decide which Super Pig would
have the honor of being invited to
this prestigious occasion.
(beat)
Are you ready to meet the WINNER of
the contest? The Best Super Pig on
the face of this earth? The Best of
the best?
YEAH!

CROWD

88.
JOHNNY
ARE YOU READY?
YEAH!

CROWD

JOHNNY
Well I'm afraid you're going to
have to meet someone else first!
The crowd BOOS good-naturedly.
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
Isn't that always the way? Before
you meet the talent, you gotta meet
the suits!
Johnny does a theatrical yawn. The crowd laugh.
JOHNNY (CONT'D)
Just kidding! She's an amazing
little lady and the brains behind
this whole Super Pig project! So
please put your hands together for
the one, the only, Luuucy
Mirandoooooo!
APPLAUSE. Lucy gracefully struts onto the stage, mock-wagging
her finger at Johnny.
LUCY
(Laughing, into the
microphone)
Oh Johnny! You're skating on thin
ice! Don't fall through and drown!
I/E. LED MULTI-SCREEN - CONTINUOUS
We see a gray eye peeking through a small hole.
BLOND
(mocking Johnny)
Luuucy -- Mirandoooooo -Blond is crouched inside the enclosed space behind the multiscreen, among various electric lines and AV cables.
Concentrating hard, he connects an HDMI cable to his laptop
and does an equipment check.

89.
EXT. OUTDOOR STAGE - CONTINUOUS
LUCY
Don’t worry! I'm not here to bore
you with some corporate speech. I'm
here to introduce you to a real
superstar! Maybe you've already
seen this amazing little girl on
You Tube enjoying a shopping trip
in Seoul!
The audience laughs.
JOHNNY
I wonder what she bought?! Maybe
some oinkment! Or maybe a DVD.
Jurassic Pork? Or a copy of Porks
Illustrated! If she did, I hope she
doesn't HOG it! I want a look at
the swimwear models myself!!
The audience and Lucy groan. Lucy puts up her hand to shush
everyone.
LUCY
So let’s all welcome an
extraordinary young girl!
Acoustic indie music plays through the loudspeakers.
LUCY (CONT'D)
A local farmer who raised her Super
Pig in wild and beautiful nature
with more love than I could have
ever asked for.
With a loud WHIR, the barrel-like lift containing Mija begins
to rise. Mija's nervous face peeks over the stage.
LUCY (O.S.) (CONT'D)
The fearless pig rider from all the
way across the globe! Please
welcome, Miiii - Jaaaaaaa -!
Mija turns bright red upon seeing the cheering crowd. She
waves at them with an awkward smile. But she keeps her focus.
Mija's eyes suddenly widen. She sees Okja approaching the
stage on a parade float.
LUCY (CONT'D)
And here she is! Our ultimate Super
Pig! Okjaaaa!

90.
The crowd cheer as they turn around. Okja stands atop a
parade float decorated with trees and flowers. She feeds on
the real grass covering the top of the float as it approaches
slowly.
Mija cups her hands around her mouth and yells,
Okja!

MIJA

Mija waves her arms wildly, but Okja doesn't look up.
merely continues to chomp on the grass.

She

LUCY
Separated by a cruel twist of fate,
Okja and Mija! Best friends
forever, reunited by the Mirando
Company!
The Mirando Event Staff begin to penetrate the crowd in a
single file.
Once they've threaded through, they divide the crowd to make
a path. It is almost like the parting of the Red Sea. The
parade float enters the path and proceeds toward Mija.
Jay stands among the crowd. He looks up at Mija and scans the
surroundings, on high alert.
MIJA
Okja, it's me!
(sobs)
I came for you!
Jennifer stands below the stage eagerly awaiting the dramatic
reunion.
JENNIFER
3...2...1...
Okja is now only a few feet away from Mija, but she still
doesn't look up. She continues to mindlessly chew on the
grass. The crowd begins to stir, and Lucy becomes nervous.
Finally, Mija jumps at Okja and grabs her face.
MIJA
Okja... What's wrong?
Okja shakes her head from side to side like she has a tic.
Mija lifts up Okja's drooped eyelid.
AAAHH!!

MIJA (CONT'D)

91.
The crowd hold their breath. Silence spreads throughout the
plaza.
CLOSE ON Okja's eyes. They resemble shark eyes. No focus, no
soul. Both eyes are completely saturated blood-red.
MIJA (CONT'D)
What did you do to my Okja..?
BUZZ. Piercing static noise as the LED multi-screen loses its
picture. The clips of local farmers in vast, unadulterated
nature disappear from the screen. Jay picks up his cell phone
as he stands amidst the confused crowd.
JAY
(in a small voice)
Hurry up! Now!
INT. LED MULTI-SCREEN - CONTINUOUS
BLOND
Okay, okay.
(grumbling to himself)
This is like the most advanced
hacking ever endeavored.
Blond unplugs the cable from the monitor's HDMI port and
holds it in his mouth. He plugs in the HDMI cable connected
to his laptop instead.
EXT. LED MULTI-SCREEN, STAGE - CONTINUOUS
BUZZ. The secretly filmed footage of the Mirando laboratory
appears on the screen. We see horrendously deformed GMO
piglets screaming in pain, fear. Okja suddenly SQUEALS and
spasms uncontrollably.
LUCY
What the hell is going on?!
Mija tries to calm Okja.
Mija can sense that something horrific is being shown on the
screen behind her, but she never turns around - just as she
was told by Jay.
The crowd scream and shout in horror and anger at what
they’re seeing on the screen.
The highlight is when the drunk and pathetic Dr. Johnny tells
Okja:

92.
JOHNNY
...the sick shit Lucy makes us do
in here. Christ knows how many laws
we’re breaking. It makes my stomach
-BANG. Johnny pulls the biopsy gun trigger mid-speech.
Blond has LOOPED that dreadful moment so it plays on the
giant LED screen OVER AND OVER.
Johnny and Lucy stare at the screen, at a loss. Audience
members SHOUT IN FURY, throwing bottles and cans in their
direction.
LUCY
Turn it off!
Johnny’s brain whirs. What can he possibly do to rescue his
reputation? He approaches the microphone.
JOHNNY
(with as much sincerity as
he can muster)
I promise - no, I pledge - to learn
from this.
Johnny’s face is a picture of humility. He gulps. A beat.
Then a soda can hits him straight between the eyes.
INT. ABANDONED BUILDING - CONTINUOUS
Red casually smokes a cigarette as watches the plaza below
descend into further pandemonium. She takes the cigarette and
carefully brings it to the fuse on top of the DIY bazooka.
She watches the CRACKLING fuse slowly disappear.
EXT. LED MULTI-SCREEN, STAGE - CONTINUOUS
A loud BOOM. A mortar is fired from the nearby abandoned
building. The handmade bomb flies across the air leaving a
wake of white baking powder. It hits the Super Pig balloon
smack in the middle. People scream as the balloon POPS.
When it does, fliers and print-outs that were hidden inside
the balloon pour out onto the street.
As soon as the mortar fires, Jay puts on his balaclava. The
other A.L.F. members dispersed throughout the crowd do the
same. Soon the plaza is covered by a sea of black heads.

93.
They vastly outnumber the NYPD OFFICERS and Mirando Event
Staff. Lucy begins to panic.
The punctured balloon begins to shoot around wildly, and
Silver pulls on the chord with all his strength to steer it
toward the crowd. Because of his gaunt frame, he is steered
by the balloon instead, lifted up and sideways like a
marionette on strings. Still he somehow manages to keep the
balloon on course, and the fliers fall over the crowd like
snow on an open field.
Provocative titles: "The Ugly Truth Behind the Mirando Super
Pig Project!" "Mirando: Criminals. Abusers." The angry crowd
run over to pick up the printouts. As they do, we hear
Blond's voice through the speakers.
INT. LED MULTI-SCREEN - CONTINUOUS
BLOND (V.O.)
(mimicking a BBC anchor)
For more details and shocking proof
of Mirando's crimes against humans
and animals, go to You Tube and
search 'Mirando is Fucked'. Again.
Go to You Tube and search 'Mirando
is F, U, C, K, E, D'.
Blond repeats the phrases like an automated machine,
comically crouched in the narrow space among machines and
circuitry.
EXT. LED MULTI-SCREEN, STAGE - CONTINUOUS
Unfolding before us is the biggest A.L.F. demonstration in
history. They have completely taken over the plaza. Jay jumps
on the stage, necktie heroically flapping in the air. He
lifts his balaclava slightly and shows Mija his face.
JAY
Let's get Okja out of here.
Mija is too busy trying to calm Okja, who SQUEALS and
thrashes at the increasing confusion around her. Mija tries
her best to connect, but the red-eyed Okja is still
unresponsive.
INT. NEARBY UPSCALE RESTAURANT - DAY
Frank looks down at the chaos from the second story window.

94.
FRANK
I don't think we have a choice,
Nancy. You have to go out there.
NANCY (O.S.)
You don't say.
The voice is familiar. NANCY MIRANDO clicks her high heels
into the FRAME. We see her from behind as she walks to
Frank's side and looks down at the situation unfolding in the
plaza.
NANCY (O.S.) (CONT'D)
What a clusterfuck.
She lets out a long sigh.
NANCY (CONT'D)
Let's get private security in
there.
FRANK
Black Chalk?
Yes.

NANCY

Frank dials on his cell phone as he walks out of the FRAME.
We see the hell that has broken loose in front of Nancy.
EXT. STAGE - CONTINUOUS
Big A.L.F. members jump at Okja to subdue her, but they're
instantly thrown off by her violent thrashing.
Mija sprints toward the wild and unruly Okja. She leaps onto
Okja's face and tries to hug her, but Okja bites on her arm.
Mija lets out a horrible SCREAM. Jay and the A.L.F. members
don't know what to do as they watch the red-eyed Okja clamp
down on Mija's blood-dripping arm. Jay picks up a microphone
stand. He is about to stab Okja in the mouth when...
No!

MIJA

Mija stops Jay with her other arm. She looks up at Okja,
biting down the bone-crushing pain. Okja's eyes are still
red, lost. She growls as she shakes her head from side to
side, nearly tearing off Mija's arm. In spite of the horrible
pain, Mija puts on a peaceful face. She smiles and begins
caressing Okja's face with her free hand.

95.

Okja...

MIJA (CONT'D)

Okja lets out a weak growl.
MIJA (CONT'D)
It's okay...
Okja's violent motions slowly subside. The crowd watches
closely.
MIJA (CONT'D)
Trees... The trees...
MIJA'S POV, AS SHE LIES ON THE STAGE:
We see Manhattan skyscrapers piercing the sky. No trees. The
blue sky behind Okja's face, however, is the same blue sky we
saw back in the mountains.
MIJA (CONT'D)
Clouds... The blue sky...
Mija whispers as she caresses Okja's face. She has completely
forgotten about the pain, her face more peaceful than ever.
Okja's breathing becomes more even.
The violent activity in the plaza becomes a meaningless blur
to Mija and Okja as they gaze at each other. The police
fighting the A.L.F., the angry crowd screaming at Johnny and
Lucy - we barely notice it now. The red subsides from Okja’s
eyes. Her face returns to the gentle, innocent Okja we know.
She belatedly comes to and frets over what she has done. She
licks the blood off Mija's arm.
JAY'S POV: Behind the crowd, we see a black semi-trailer
truck rushing toward the plaza. At Jay's signal, the A.L.F.
crew begin moving in organized fashion. They fight off police
and crowd members and create a path for the semi to approach
Mija and Okja.
JAY
Our driver has arrived!
At that moment, a large steel-enforced vehicle appears at the
intersection and CRASHES into the A.L.F. semi, forcing it off
the road and into a nearby street lamp. The steel surface is
unpainted, making it look all the more intimidating.
MERCENARIES in special ops uniforms rush out from the back.
The uniforms are marked with the name 'BLACK CHALK - Private
Security Company.' Other Black Chalk cars arrive from all
directions. Soon they surround the entire plaza.

96.
The specially-trained mercenaries attack and subdue the
A.L.F. members with an UNEXPECTED technique. Every method
they utilize is designed to look to the Manhattan passers-by
like no big deal - just an apparently gentle arm-lock or
little dig at a pressure point or underneath a finger nail.
But close-up it’s clear they’re inflicting INCREDIBLE PAIN on
the A.L.F. These are brilliant martial-arts techniques - it
is violence so discreet the onlookers are oblivious to it.
The SCREAMS of the A.L.F. members seem incongruous and
pathetic as a result.
A MAN IN A SHARP SUIT emerges from the steel-enforced vehicle
and walks over to the NYPD COMMANDING OFFICER. He hands the
officer a stack of documents.
SHARP SUIT
We are Black Chalk - a Private
Security Company. We've just signed
a contract with Nancy Mirando of
the Mirando Company.
Okay?

NYPD COMMANDING OFFICER

SHARP SUIT
Here is info about our team of
attorneys. We are restraining the
demonstrators because they’re
hindering our client’s business and
destroying her property. As you can
see we are not using excessive
force.
A.L.F. members scream in front of Jay as they’re being
subdued by the mercenaries. Jay's heart breaks at the sight,
but he forces himself to turn away. He climbs off the stage
and runs away as fast as he can with Mija and Okja in tow. A
few A.L.F. members follow to protect them, including Red and
Blond and Silver. Black Chalk Mercenaries quickly give chase.
EXT. BELOW THE STAGE - DAY
Lucy - in HIDING - watches the chaos unfold. Her shock has
subsided and she's rather calm. She takes out a cigarette and
looks for a lighter but can't find one.
Nancy Mirando enters the FRAME with a lighter and lights
Lucy's cigarette. We still only see Nancy from behind.
LUCY
You knew this would happen of
course, Nancy.

97.
NANCY
Not at all.
LUCY
Well. Good luck with cleaning up my
mess.
Lucy is acting calm, but she's bereft. Nancy squeezes Lucy's
shoulder.
LUCY (CONT'D)
For a while back then I forgot I
was a fucking loser, Nance.
NANCY
Oh, Luce. Dad should never have
done and said those things to you.
But why rebel against his legacy so
ridiculously?
We see Nancy's face for the first time. She looks exactly
like Lucy. Identical twins.
NANCY (CONT'D)
I mean, Dad was a terrible man. But
he was fucking good at business.
Nancy takes out a cigarette and tries to light it, but the
lighter won't work. She lights it from the burning part of
Lucy's cigarette. The two sisters look like a symmetrical
decalcomania print as they stand face to face with their
cigarettes touching.
We see Frank approaching in the background.
NANCY (CONT'D)
Don't worry about your apology
speech. I'll pretend to be you in
front of the press.
Nancy smiles at Lucy - an in-joke between identical twins.
LUCY
(scoffs)
Fuck off.
NANCY
But you’ll need to do your own jail
time.
Lucy laughs. Then she stops laughing. Nancy isn’t kidding.

98.
LUCY
Jail!?! Because of that lab
footage?? Who cares? It’s just
some...
NANCY
... just some animal cruelty. I
know. If you can even call them
animals.
Nancy shivers.
NANCY (CONT’D)
But our attorneys will be way too
busy to help you out of this one.
We see a team of NYPD officers approach Lucy.
Nancy doesn't look behind her. She knows Frank is there.
NANCY (CONT’D)
Frank, I want to get started on
this ASAP. Do you have a pen and a
pad?
Of course.

FRANK

Frank takes out his note pad.
NANCY
The demonstrators. We’ll put them
all in jail. Put together a team
for a criminal lawsuit.
Sure.

FRANK

Frank and Nancy move to one side to allow the NYPD officers
to surround Lucy. She DISAPPEARS amongst them.
NANCY
We'll drastically cut down the
promotional budget. We'll use the
money we save on marketing to lobby
Congress and pay off the Federal
commissions.
INT. ALLEY - CONTINUOUS
Nancy's terse, chilling orders continue in VOICE-OVER as we
see Okja, Mija, Jay and the A.L.F. members running through
the alley. We only hear Nancy and Frank's voices.

99.
FRANK (V.O.)
What about spending some of the
money on media damage control?
NANCY (V.O.)
No point. They'll hate us for a bit
and then they'll forget. We'll get
production started right away. We
already have FDA approval, correct?
FRANK (V.O.)
Yes. But I'm not sure how the
customers will react after today.
NANCY (V.O.)
If it's cheap, they'll eat it. I
guarantee early sales will be high.
The Black Chalk Mercenaries catch up with the A.L.F. members
guarding Okja and Mija. The mercenaries scan the area and seeing the coast is clear of onlookers - viciously bludgeon
them.
Blond falls to the ground.
We see a mercenary standing over Red. She looks up at him
with disdain.
Slut.

MERCENARY

The Mercenary kicks her in the stomach.
We see Silver pushed violently against a wall. With his
slight frame, Silver is easy to take down, but the Mercenary
acts with extreme force anyway.
As Silver lies on the ground, about to lose consciousness, he
spots a WOMAN and her LITTLE DOG - bystanders who have
somehow found themselves caught up in this terrifying
situation.
Silver's POV: The woman looks petrified. But the adorable
little dog has its tongue out, almost like it's smiling at
Silver. The little dog's smiling face is Silver's last sight
before he loses consciousness.
Mija clutches her bloody arm as she runs away. She looks to
the side and sees even more Black Chalk Mercenaries approach
from a different route. One aims a large NET GUN at Okja.

100.
NANCY (V.O.)
Tell the factories to start
production tonight and begin
supplying to supermarkets, hotels,
and butcher shops ASAP.
BOOM. The fired net immediately clings to Okja. She trips on
the net and tumbles.
She becomes further entangled as she rolls on the ground.
Mija runs over to Okja. Jay turns toward her as well.
Mija and Jay try to untangle Okja. The Mercenaries come over
and begin to beat Jay. The charismatic Jay goes down
instantly - without putting up any fight. He is taken apart.
NANCY (V.O.)
Shut down the laboratory. Put all
the animals we have into
production. We'll go to the
production facility tonight for an
inspection. Put all the execs on
call. Even the ones on vacation.
Okja SCREAMS through the net as she's dragged into the Black
Chalk vehicle.
Mija rolls helplessly on the ground, barely conscious. The
Mercenaries put Jay on his knees and pull his arms back.
A LOUD HONK. The A.L.F. TRUCK careers into the alley. We
can't tell who's driving.
While the Mercenaries are distracted by the oncoming truck,
Jay runs over to Mija and rolls her out of the way just in
time. The A.L.F. truck charges on, scattering the Mercenaries
out of its way.
Jay helps the bloody Mija to her feet and takes her to the
next block, where the A.L.F. truck meets them after rounding
the corner. They use the last of their strength to climb into
it.
INT. CAB, BLACK SEMI - DAY/EVENING/NIGHT
Jay lays the barely conscious Mija in the passenger seat.
He's exhausted and covered in blood. The driver takes off his
balaclava. It's K!
K
Are you okay?

101.
JAY
K? What are you...?
Jay sinks in his seat. K shows him a new tattoo on his arm:
'Translations Are Sacred.' Jay doesn't have the energy to
respond to the ridiculous tattoo.
Okja...

JAY (CONT'D)
We need to hurry...

The brutal beating has taken a toll. Jay's focus goes in and
out. He's lost a lot of blood.
Okja...

JAY (CONT'D)

Mija is also barely conscious. She's losing blood fast from
the wound on her arm.
FADE TO BLACK:
We hear music. Rhythmic, like a heartbeat. We see MIJA'S
blurry POV as she fades in and out of consciousness.
FADE IN:
A blood-red sunset outside the window. The semi screeches to
a stop and an IRANIAN MAN hops on, carrying a medical bag. He
bickers with K, making big arm gestures, as he removes
syringes from his bag.
FADE TO BLACK:
FADE IN:
The sky is dark. Street lamps pass by. Mija turns her head.
The Iranian man stitches Jay's forehead with great
concentration. He looks nervous. The procedure is illuminated
by a flashlight between his lips. An IV bottle feeding into
Mija's arm dangles precariously in the moving truck.
FADE TO BLACK:
FADE IN:
Still night, still inside the moving semi. The Iranian man is
gone. Mija's wound is bandaged. K is driving, talking on the
phone, his back to us. Jay has regained consciousness. He's
sitting up, yelling at K, but we can't hear what he's saying.
A huge truck blasts by in the opposite lane with a deafening
noise.

102.
At that moment, all sounds come rushing back to Mija - the
roaring wind, the growling engine, Jay and K's shouting.
JAY (CONT’D)
Are you sure?
K
Yeah! It has to be true.
Jay looks conflicted. He sees that Mija is awake and turns to
her.
JAY
Are you okay?
Yes.

MIJA

K turns his head slightly. He translates in a rigid, formal
tone, sitting upright and tightly gripping the steering
wheel.
MIJA (CONT'D)
Where are we going?
Jay and K look at each other. They hesitate.
JAY
We're going to Okja.
Really?

MIJA

JAY
(nods)
Yes but... You should know that
the situation... it's not good.
I'm sorry.
Mija becomes scared. She doesn't even want to ask. Jay thinks
before asking...
JAY (CONT'D)
What's the Black Chalk response
time after we infiltrate?
K
Six, seven minutes at best.
K floors the pedal, accelerating further. The MUSIC becomes
faster, like a heartbeat fueled by adrenaline. The truck
begins to shake as it enters a dirt road.

103.
JAY
Is it even possible to do it in
seven minutes?
Do what?

MIJA

The truck pulls an abrupt turn. Even amidst the shaking and
the clouds of dirt from the road Jay maintains his calm gaze.
JAY
Sorry. We are going to need your
help.
MIJA
(Annoyed by Jay's oblique
comments)
My help with WHAT?
K abruptly stops the truck. Jay and Mija and K climb/tumble
out into...
...a vast feedyard.
JAY
Helping us find Okja!
Mija gasps at the sight before her. The field and the nearby
hill are densely packed with thousands, no, tens of thousands
of Super Pigs. Standing atop the hill is a factory-type
slaughterhouse...
EXT. FEEDYARD - NIGHT
Okja!

MIJA

Mija, Jay and K split up and run in DIFFERENT DIRECTIONS
through the field shouting Okja's name - small dots in the
vast field filled with countless Super Pigs, all with the
same face. Soon they are far away from each other.
K
(Calling)
Okja!
Suddenly K comes face to face with an OLD SECURITY GUARD. The
man rushes K, and K knocks him to the ground as politely as
he can.
K sees the fallen Security Guard calling for help on his
phone. He looks at his watch.

104.

Shit.

K (CONT'D)

K quickly telephones Jay - who is somewhere far across the
field.
K (CONT'D)
Seven minutes. Starting now.
JAY
Damn.
(Calling)
Okja!!
Mija shouts Okja’s name as she runs, even louder than Jay.
She suddenly stops when she hears a LOW GROWL. Is it Okja? A
hallucination? She turns toward the sound to find...
...a long line of pigs marching into the entrance of the
slaughterhouse, silhouetted by the bright light from inside.
A solemn death march.
MIJA
(mumbling to herself)
Okja...
The pig at the top of the line turns toward Mija, crying
desperately.
It's Okja!

MIJA (CONT'D)

Mija quickly looks for Jay and K, but they're too far away.
There's no time. She has to do this alone.
Mija runs as fast as she can toward the slaughterhouse. Okja
sees her and cries harder, but she is shoved further down the
line into the slaughterhouse.
K sees Okja and calls after Jay, who turns and begins running
toward Okja with K.
A WORKER at the entrance gives Okja's bottom a jolt with a
taser. Quick and efficient, an everyday routine. Okja starts
walking again. She enters the slaughterhouse.
MIJA (CONT'D)
No!! Don't go inside!!
Mija's voice is overwhelmed by the machinery noise coming
from the slaughterhouse. She sees an employee's entrance 40
metres from the door Okja walked into. She hurries towards
it.

105.
INT. SLAUGHTERHOUSE - NIGHT
Mija enters the 'factory of death'. The structure is
labyrinthine, and she has no idea where to go. She's consumed
by shock and fear. The humidity, the revolting smell, the
deafening noise, the slick, blood-covered floor. A traumatic
sight for a girl who grew up in the mountains.
Various slabs of meat hanging from metal hooks move steadily
along the aerial conveyor system. Instinctively, she runs in
the opposite direction of the movement.
WORKERS wearing large noise-blocking earmuffs stand along the
conveyor system and go about their jobs. They look at Mija
with some curiosity, but return to their work. They're unable
to leave the ever-moving production line.
Mija finally arrives at the stun box - aka the execution box.
She sees a Super Pig being forced into the box. Its head is
firmly fitted into a hole in the front. A YOUNG HISPANIC
WORKER aims a large bolt gun at its forehead and prepares to
shoot when he sees Mija running toward him. He briefly
hesitates but soon returns his attention to his task.
CLOSE on Mija’s face. We hear a BANG. The worker has
evidently pulled the trigger. Mija is too horrified to even
scream.
Mija freezes after witnessing the execution in all its
gruesome reality. The next Super Pig is led into the stun
box. It's Okja.
MIJA
(a trembling voice)
Okja...
Mija goes blank, completely petrified. She looks straight at
Okja, whose head is being threaded through the 'hole of
death.'
MIJA (CONT'D)
It's okay...
Okja seems to know that death is imminent. She desperately
tries to free her head. She looks up at Mija with tear-filled
eyes.
Because...

MIJA (CONT'D)

Mija's voice trembles. The Hispanic Worker looks at Mija as
he reloads the bolt gun. He doesn't know who the hell this
girl is or why she's here. He just carries on with his work.

106.
MIJA (CONT'D)
Even this man...
With his eyes still on Mija, the Hispanic Worker aims the
bolt gun at Okja's forehead. Okja closes her eyes when she
feels the cold barrel of the bolt gun on her forehead. Tears
fall.
Mija looks into the Worker's eyes.
MIJA (CONT'D)
...he doesn't want to do this.
Mija raises her hand at the worker. 'Hold on.' She reaches
into her back pocket with her other hand. For some reason,
the Hispanic Worker is compelled to hold back from pulling
the trigger. He looks into Mija's eyes.
Mija removes a PHOTOGRAPH from her back pocket. She shows it
to the Worker. It's one of the photos from Mija's room. 10year-old Mija tightly hugging Okja. The Hispanic Worker
squints at the photo, his bolt gun still trained on Okja's
forehead.
The production line becomes backed up, and the ALARM begins
to sound. Red lights flash throughout the slaughterhouse.
CLOSE ON the Hispanic Worker's ambiguous expression.
He points at the photo Mija is holding - 'that pig...' - and
then points at Okja - '...is this pig?'
Mija nods quietly. The Hispanic Worker freezes. The finger
around the trigger trembles lightly.
Just then Jay and K arrive, out of breath. They stop next to
Mija. Okja stays absolutely still with her mouth fiercely
clamped and eyes closed. Suddenly...
A loud metallic CREAK.
The large stun box leans to the side. We see the Hispanic
Worker holding down the button.
Okja, still alive, slides onto the conveyor belt below.
Mija's legs give in and she falls on her knees. She embraces
Okja's head. Her arms continue to shake.
The Hispanic Worker looks down at them with a heavy heart.
But he soon breaks out of his lull and returns to work like
nothing happened. He brings in the next pig. The ALARM and
the red lights stop - the production line being back to
normal.

107.
Mija sobs as she watches the continued death march. K hurries
over and helps Mija onto her feet. Jay leads the group toward
the exit. As they round the corner...
NANCY
Was this what caused the alarm?
FRANK
I believe so.
... they come face to face with Nancy and a dozen MIRANDO
EXECUTIVES, performing an inspection of the facility. We see
Black Chalk Mercenaries arriving at the entrance and running
toward Okja.
NANCY
I’m staggered that security is so
lax some hooligans were able to
stop our entire production line,
even for a second.
FRANK
It won't happen again. Please note
that Black Chalk was here exactly
on time. Seven minutes after
Security telephoned them.
While all the Executives look down at their watches, Black
Chalk Mercenaries quickly surround Mija and the gang. One of
the Mercenaries discovers K's A.L.F. tattoo as he restrains
him with a PlastiCuff. He treats Jay and K even more
violently upon realizing who they are.
Mija glares at Nancy.
NANCY
Isn't this Lucy’s beloved 'Fearless
Pig Rider?'
FRANK
She is. And that would be our Best
Super Pig.
NANCY
What's it doing out here?
should be on a meat hook.

It

Tension fills the room. Mija carefully breaches the silence.
She speaks in English.
MIJA
I wanna go home, with Okja.
Mija says each word slowly and clearly.

108.
NANCY
No. It's my property.
Mija is not sure what Nancy is saying but continues to stare
straight into her eyes.
MIJA
Why you want to kill Okja?
NANCY
We can only sell the dead ones.
Jay barks at Nancy with his hands cuffed.
JAY
You should be ashamed of yourself.
NANCY
Quite the opposite. We're pretty
proud of our accomplishments.
K
Psychopath.
NANCY
No. We’re hardworking business
people. And we've got it down to an
art. Well, a science.
Nancy points at specific parts of a Super Pig carcass
dangling on a hook behind her.
NANCY (CONT'D)
There's the tenderloin. For the
sophisticated restaurants! Mexicans
love the feet. I know! Go figure!
We ALL love the face and the anus.
They’re American as apple pie! Hot
Dogs! It's all edible. Everything
but the squeal! Will I go on? No. I
won’t go on.
Frank gestures to the Black Chalk Mercenaries. They grab Jay
and K by their arms and begin to pull them out.
Jay turns to Nancy as he's being dragged out.
JAY
You're Nancy Mirando, aren't you?
Nancy glances at Jay, curious. She raises her hand at the
Black Chalks to hold.

109.
NANCY
And you are?
JAY
Let Mija and Okja go.
Why?

NANCY

K
You already have shitloads of
money.
NANCY
(genuinely baffled)
But this is BUSINESS.
JAY
(quietly)
I hold all creatures dear to my
heart Nancy but... You’re crying
out to be an exception.
Nancy scoffs. The Black Chalk Mercenaries violently drag Jay
and K out of the slaughterhouse. Frank gives a signal to the
Manager, who in turn signals his employees. The Workers run
over and drag Okja toward the stun box.
Wait!

MIJA

Mija's voice booms throughout the slaughterhouse. She zips
open her ridiculous fanny pack and reaches inside. She takes
out the shiny gold pig that Hee Bong gave her.
Mija holds up the gold pig.
MIJA (CONT’D)
I wanna buy Okja! Alive!
Nancy looks at the gold pig, amused. The little girl is
impressive. Mija pushes the gold pig toward Nancy. It glides
across the slick, blood-covered floor and stops at Nancy's
foot. Frank takes out his handkerchief and wipes the blood
off as he picks it up.
Nancy picks up the gold pig and studies it carefully. She
gives it a quick bite with her front teeth. A strange,
grotesque expression appears on her face. She winces at the
lingering smell of blood before quietly gazing at Mija.
NANCY
(to Frank)
We have a customer!

110.
Frank looks back and forth between Nancy and Mija, his facial
expression peculiar.
NANCY (CONT'D)
This is worth a lot of money! Make
sure the girl gets home safely. The
first ever buyer of a Mirando Super
Pig!
(happily, to Mija)
Congratulations on your purchase!
Frank calls one of the Black Chalks and delivers a few
instructions. Nancy turns around and continues her inspection
with the Executives. Mija finally unclenches her fist, which
she'd been nervously squeezing the entire time. Once the
tension lifts, her chest swells with a mixture of emotions.
EXT. FEED-YARD - NIGHT
Two Black Chalk Mercenaries lead Mija and Okja across the
expansive feed-yard. Mija looks back and sees the line of
pigs marching into the slaughterhouse. The death march looks
even sadder under the beautiful light of the moon. Mija's
heart is heavy as she leaves the rest of the pigs behind.
The pigs inside the fence watch Okja enviously as she leaves.
Two Super Pigs walk along the fence and begin following Okja.
Mija and Okja look at them curiously, soon noticing something
between the two adult pigs - a small PIGLET, their baby.
The mother pig pushes the baby through the fence with her
snout. The piglet is small enough to fit through the wire,
but it kicks and squirms and refuses to separate from its
parents. The mother stubbornly shoves it through the fence.
Mija realizes what the mother is trying to do. She quickly
herds the piglet under Okja’s belly and looks at the two
Black Chalk Mercenaries walking ahead. They are too immersed
in their conversation to notice.
The baby pig keeps looking back as it treads along under the
cover of Okja’s belly. Its mother and father poke their heads
over the fence and let out a heartfelt SQUEAL - a goodbye.
As they do, other super pigs notice the BABY ESCAPEE and
begin SQUEALING as well. Their cries spread, until ALL the
super pigs in the feedyard have joined in - a CACOPHONY of
SORROW, but also of DEFIANCE and CELEBRATION.
The Black Chalks look around dumbfounded. As they do the
cries reach a crescendo, and one of the pigs begins POOPING.

111.
And then THOUSANDS do. Thousands of super pigs shoot poop out
of their behinds like fireworks - a bizarre and miraculous
act of rebellion. A celebration of life.
Mija continues walking, a brave smile, her eyes moist.
Okja carefully traipses along, minding the piglet underneath
like her own.
I/E. MIRANDO TRUCK - NIGHT
Inside the moving truck. Mija sits inside the cargo area. We
follow her gaze to find Okja sleeping in front of her,
exhausted from her ordeal. Okja opens her mouth to yawn, and
we see the tiny piglet peeking out from underneath Okja's
huge slab of a tongue. When Mija reaches out her hand, the
piglet crawls out and jumps into her arms. Okja doesn't even
notice that the baby is gone. She continues to sleep, gently
rocked by the moving truck. The truck travels along the dark
road.
EXT. WOODS - DAY
CLOSE ON Mija's face as she sleeps. Fragments of light fall
through the leaves and flicker on her face. Mija opens her
eyes at the sound of BIRDS CHIRPING. She looks down at her
belly where the piglet has fallen asleep with her face down.
Mija gently runs her hand over the piglet's body. Mija, in
turn, is lying on top of the sleeping Okja. A tower of
bodies: Okja - Mija - the piglet.
A gentle breeze blows from the woods. The piglet shifts in
her sleep and falls off Mija onto the grass. She looks
around, dazed, before finding a place underneath Okja's ear
and returning to sleep.
The woods, the sun, the breeze. Peace is all around.
With her eyes closed, Okja flaps her ears and creates a
gentle breeze for the piglet. Lying on Okja's back, Mija
looks up at the trees and the blue sky.
EXT. MIJA'S HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON
Hee Bong sets up an early dinner on the table outside. He
walks back and forth between the kitchen and the front yard
carrying vegetables and boiled eggs and other side dishes to
the table. Chickens leisurely roam the yard. Hee Bong smells
the boiled potato in his hands as he brings it to the table.

112.
Okja and Mija enter the frame and pass the yard toward the
shed. Okja suddenly stops and looks into the camera. She
stares for a while before she is dragged into the shed by
Mija.
The piglet comes in late. She runs around the yard kicking up
dust and scaring the chickens. Hee Bong walks out into the
dusty yard with two bowls of rice and utensils.
Mija!
I'm here!

HEE BONG
MIJA (O.S.)

Hee Bong sits at the table. He shouts toward the shed.
HEE BONG
Hurry up! The food's getting cold!
Coming!

MIJA (O.S.)

Hee Bong waits. He picks up the green soju bottle next to the
table and peers into it. A tiny bit is left on the bottom.
Hee Bong can't hold his hunger any longer. As he picks up the
spoon and digs into the rice...
THE END
END CREDITS begin with lively MUSIC. As the CREDITS of the
KEY CREW appear one by one, we CUT TO the exterior of a
prison all the way across the globe, somewhere on the East
Coast of the US.
EXT. PRISON GATE - DAY
Bright sunlight greets Jay as he exits the penitentiary. We
can tell from his hair and beard that he was inside for at
least a year or two. K welcomes Jay, offers him a cigarette.
K
(grinning)
You’re sure you don’t want to get
some rest first? I mean you only
just got out...
Jay smiles without answering. As a bus SWOOSHES into frame
and blocks our view, we...
CUT TO:

113.
INT. BUS - DAY
The bus speeds through city streets. Jay's face fills the
foreground. He looks back at the seats behind him to see...
Red, Blond, Silver scattered around the bus. They each greet
him with a knowing glance or a slight hand gesture. Silver
looks healthy, rejuvenated.
K enters the FRAME and sits next to Jay.
K
(quietly)
It's going to be big. Recordbreaking. A lot of folks have flown
in from the Midwest and Canada.
Great.

JAY

K
Oh, I want to introduce you to a
new member.
When K waves, a small Asian man enters the FRAME. We
recognize him as KIM - the ex-Mirando truck driver. He shakes
hands with Jay and returns to his seat in the back.
K (CONT'D)
He runs 'Mirandoisfucked.com'. Just
arrived here from Seoul.
Kim sits between Red and Blond and chatters incessantly like
a little bird.
K (CONT'D)
He's a chatty one...
Jay smiles and opens his bag to remove a black balaclava. K
gives a signal to the other members, and they all take out
their balaclavas. The sound of drums and marching band music
grows louder as the demonstration site approaches.
JAY
I'm guessing most of the Mirando
big wigs will be there.
K
Of course. Including Nancy.
Jay flashes a slick smile as he puts on his balaclava. The
other members don theirs as well. The remaining passengers
take out balaclavas too, revealing themselves to be A.L.F.
members. A sea of black all around.

114.
The only people without balaclavas are two OLD LADIES who
look around with befuddled looks. The bus loudly rumbles
through the bright sunlight, and the music from the festival
reaches a crescendo.
As the MUSIC continues, the remaining CREDITS begin to CRAWL
OVER BLACK.