WITH WINGS AS EAGLES

                         Screenplay by

                        Randall Wallace

                    Adapted from the Novel

                       "OSTERMANN'S WAR"

                      by James J. Cullen

                             1995

"They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength;
 they shall mount up with wings as eagles;
 they shall run, and not be weary;
 they shall walk, and not faint."

                                   Isaiah 40:01

FADE IN:

INTENSE DETAILS, GERMAN COMMANDOS:  THE BLACK EAGLES

Hands on the triggers of machine pistols; paratrooper jump
boots laced tight; long-handled grenades on belts; killing
knives; tense faces smudged black; young soldiers sitting in
two perfect ranks along a jump plane's belly.  And moving
down the ranks, inspecting is

NICHOLAS VON OSTERMANN

Colonel of the Black Eagles.  His face, beneath the German
helmet, and covered in full combat black-out, looks like
painted steel; his eyes are alive, steady, glowing with pre-
battle intensity, missing nothing.  His combat uniform is
black, like those of his men.  They are crack soldiers, yet
he dwarfs them with his commanding presence as he walks the
center lane, checking their harnesses, their grenade ties...

The last young soldier in the row has been honing his combat
knife; as Ostermann reaches the end of the row the young
soldier returns the knife to its sheath -- it makes a faint
squeak -- and sits at attention.  But Ostermann has heard the
squeak, and tests the draw of the knife; it sticks a bit in
its sheath.  He reaches to the soldier's machine pistol,
wipes his fingers on the gun's oily barrel, and rubs the
lubricant onto the knife's blade.  He glides it back into the
harness effortlessly, then turns and looks at his men.

                     OSTERMANN
               (in German/subtitled)
          The Black Eagles are ready.

BLACK

The white BLAST of a German artillery gun rips the darkness,
illuminating the long barrel pointed high into the night.

The screen stays black through the period of the shell's long
flight, then it EXPLODES, plunging us into

BLITZKRIEG

Troops of the Wehrmacht, Hitler's well-drilled army, tramp
across a stone bridge into a village, fanning out, taking
territory as fast as they can run.  The lead GERMAN OFFICER
speaks into his field radio (and now we hear English)...

                     GERMAN OFFICER
          Encountering little resistance.  We
          will continue advance.

For a few moments the village is a chaos of bullets and hand-
to-hand fighting.  Ostermann in the thick of it.  The young
soldier he last inspected -- his radio carrier -- is right
behind him as Colonel Ostermann slams through a door into the
village's largest building.

INT.  THE BUILDING - DAY

Ostermann and the young soldier find they have plunged
squarely into the middle of twenty startled Russians; they've
crashed into the Russian advance command post.  Outnumbered
twenty to two... two late to run out...

Before anyone else can react, Ostermann snaps three grenades
from his chest belt and drops them into the center of the
room, turns one of the heavy map tables over on top of
himself -- and snatches the young Commando under the table
with him just as the grenades EXPLODE -- BOOM!  BOOM!  BOOM!

Ostermann tosses off the table and rises to a crouch,
shooting the surviving Russians until his machine pistol is
empty.  Silence.

He looks down at the young soldier, who is amazed to be still
alive.  Ostermann reaches down to help him up, and just then
one of the Russians -- who already has two bullet holes in
his chest -- rises from the rubble and charges them,
screaming as he FIRES his pistol.

In a single liquid movement Ostermann slides the killing
knife from the young soldier's sheath and slings it through
the air, burying its blade in the Russian's throat.

Ostermann looks down at the soldier, then lifts the radio,
and snaps into it --

                     OSTERMANN
          Ostermann here.  The Black Eagles
          have broken the Russian attack.
          Continue the advance.

INT.  WEHRMACHT HEADQUARTERS, BERLIN - DAY

Ostermann is among the officers looking at the maps.

                     OSTERMANN
          You're showing the Russians two
          hundred kilometers further away then
          they really are!  And where do you
          show their other division?  They're
          attacking with at least two
          divisions, maybe three!...

But the officers working on the maps seem to have gone deaf.
An SS Officer BLEICHER, steps up behind Ostermann and slaps
him on the back.

                     BLEICHER
          So once again the halls of honor
          ring with the name Nicholas von
          Ostermann!

                     OSTERMANN
          Bleicher -- what is the problem
          here?  I talk and everybody seems
          deaf.

Bleicher smiles as if it's nothing, and tries to pull
Ostermann away from the maps; but Ostermann is insistent.

                     OSTERMANN
          But their maps aren't accurate, they
          don't reflect the actual --

                     BLEICHER
          We are trying to represent
          intelligence gathered from all
          sources.  Maybe here in Berlin we
          just haven't caught up with warriors
          like you.  And speaking of warriors,
          I have the pleasure to inform you
          that you've been awarded another
          Iron Cross.  For valor.

Ostermann barely glances up, still frowning at the maps.

                     BLEICHER
          I know you've won before, but at
          least show some pleasure.  It is a
          great honor, direct from the High
          Command.

                     OSTERMANN
          I'd rather see these maps accurate.
          They make it look as if we're
          winning.  But the Russians are
          fighting back, in massive force.

                     BLEICHER
          Klaus --

                     OSTERMANN
          Those are my men out there!  If we
          don't change tactics then all of
          them and all of Germany will be --

                     BLEICHER
          Times are hard for Germany.  I know
          this.  So do others.  That's why
          Germany needs men like you, now more
          than ever.

Bleicher slaps Ostermann on the back again, and urges him to
come along.

CLOSE - AN IRON CROSS - THE GERMAN MEDAL OF VALOR

being hung around Ostermann's collar, in a small ceremony in
a large room at the War Ministry Building.  The two officers
presenting the medal are young, and pale.  Ostermann is
disturbed by the look on their faces, as they quickly present
him with the medal and then hurry out, leaving Ostermann and
Bleicher alone in the huge room.

                     BLEICHER
          Again, congratulations... What is
          wrong?

                     OSTERMANN
          Those young Generals, who gave me
          the medal.  They're terrified.

                     BLEICHER
          Just tired.

                     OSTERMANN
          I know the look of fear, Horst, I
          see it every time I go to battle.
          They're frightened.  And so young.
          What are men like that doing wearing
          General's uniforms here in High
          Command?

                     BLEICHER
          I told you, these are extraordinary
          times.  Come, I have a car waiting
          for you, I know you want to see your
          family.

They move through a massive hallway, Ostermann, tall and
powerful in the gray uniform of the army, in stark contrast
to the small, thin Bleicher, in the black of the SS.

                     BLEICHER
          You should consider joining the SS.
          I know, I know, you are not
          political.  But now it is more
          important than ever.

                     OSTERMANN
          When I lead the Black Eagles into
          battle, I want them to know they
          fight for all of Germany, not one
          party, or the reward of one man.

                     BLEICHER
          I keep asking, and you keep giving
          me the same answer.  But you should
          reconsider the benefits.  Times are
          changing.  There is great
          opportunity now, for the man whose
          sentiments are beyond suspicion.

                     OSTERMANN
          My sentiments...?  If you suspect me
          of something, why give me my second
          Iron Cross?

                     BLEICHER
          I was thinking more of you brother.

                     OSTERMANN
          What about my brother?

                     BLEICHER
          I just tell you as a friend that he
          has some associations which are
          dangerous, in these dangerous times.

                     OSTERMANN
          We all have associations that are
          dangerous.  It is dangerous to be
          with inexperienced men, who are
          generals only because they are SS.

                     BLEICHER
          Their loyalties are certain.

                     OSTERMANN
          The loyalties of the men above them
          were certain too!  But those men
          have been eliminated because of
          retreats those maps of yours refuse
          to acknowledge!

                     BLEICHER
          ... As always, you see it all.  Take
          care, my friend.  We must look out
          for each other.

They have come to the outer door; like a good host, Bleicher
ushers Ostermann out, to

EXT.  BERLIN - IN 1944 - DAY

Massive Nazi banners and stone German eagles adorn the
sprawling square of central Berlin.  A chauffeured car waits;
when the driver sees Ostermann, he opens the door.

                     OSTERMANN
          For me?

                     BLEICHER
          Germany needs heroes, now more than
          ever.

INT.  OSTERMANN HOUSE - BERLIN - DAY

A family -- or most of one -- sits around a table.
Ostermann's FATHER and MOTHER are elderly Prussians, stiff
people.  The father has suffered a stroke and one side of his
face shows its effects, but still he sits bolt upright.
LISE, Ostermann's wife, is a beautiful woman, modestly
dressed.  JOHANN, their son, is twelve.  They are sitting
around the dining table, keeping up the semblance of a
morning meal, but everything is spare.

                     JOHANN
          I hate porridge.

                     LISE
          It is good porridge.

                     JOHANN
          It needs more milk.

                     LISE
          We have no milk.  No one in Berlin
          has milk now.

                     MOTHER
          Here, I found a flower.

She puts a pitiful flower on the table as decoration.

                     MOTHER
          Let us thank God for this meal.
          "Heavenly Father, thank you that we
          have food to eat, and that we are
          all alive to eat it.  And watch over
          Klaus, and keep him --

                     JOHANN
          Papa!

Johann has just seen the silhouette of his father appear at
the front door.  Ostermann enters.  Everyone jumps up.  Lise
rushes into his arms; he lifts her off the floor in a hug.

                     OSTERMANN
          Darling... Father... Mother... And
          Johann!

Johann, a tall, handsome boy, has been staring at his father
in awe; but now Ostermann, still holding his wife, scoops the
boy up in one arm, and hugs him, and the boy throws his arms
around his father's neck and buries his face against his
father.  Ostermann realizes his son is crying, and his own
eyes go damp with emotion.  Ostermann's old father speaks,
through the garble of his stroke-twisted mouth --

                     FATHER
          Thank God.

                     OSTERMANN
          Yes.  Thank God.

LATER

They are all sitting around the table, drinking tea.

                     LISE
          Excuse me, I must... check on
          something upstairs.

She leaves the table.

                     MOTHER
          I'm sorry the tea is so weak.

                     OSTERMANN
          It's better than what we have at
          the front.

                     MOTHER
          Let's not talk about the Front.

                     JOHANN
          But I want to hear!  It was in the
          paper that you stopped the Russians.
          The Black Eagles flew in behind
          them, and turned them all back!
          They're running back to Moscow right
          now!

There is a silence from Ostermann, which everyone but Johann
seems to understand.

                     JOHANN
          As soon as I'm old enough, I'll join
          the Black Eagles.

                     OSTERMANN
          No!!

The sharpness of Ostermann's response startles Johann.

                     JOHANN
          But Papa, I just want to be like
          you.

                     OSTERMANN
          Be a doctor like your mother.  Save
          lives.  Or be a pastor like Uncle
          Reinhold, and save souls.  But do
          not be like me.  Just be Johann.

Lise stands and gently takes her husband's hand.

                     LISE
          Klaus... I need some help upstairs,
          hanging some pictures.

Ostermann stands, touches his son's head lovingly, and
follows his wife upstairs.

UPSTAIRS - IN THE BEDROOM

Ostermann closes the bedroom door behind him, and kisses Lise
slowly, lovingly.  Their passion builds; she steps back and
lets down her hair.  It had been up in the severe bun of a
married women of Berlin, but now as it tumbles around her
shoulders we see her beauty even more, her sensuality.
Ostermann takes off his tunic, and as he bares his chest Lise
gasps at the new scars there.

                     LISE
          Klaus!

She touches the new marks with her fingers.  There are signs
of cuts and scrapes, and old wounds; but the most frightening
new scar is the recent mark of a bullet that hit his left
side.  She finds an even larger, more terrifying exit wound
on the back.  Ostermann smiles reassuringly.

                     OSTERMANN
          It was nothing, really.

                     LISE
          It was a week in the hospital.

                     OSTERMANN
          How did you know that?

                     LISE
          Reinhold told me.  He has many
          friends at the War Ministry.

Ostermann takes her in his arms.

                     OSTERMANN
          Nothing will stop me from coming
          back to you.  I love you too much to
          die in this war.

As he kisses her and takes her in his arms, her fears melt
away, and all that's left is this moment.

They make love as if it were their first time together.

LATER

They lie in bed, spent.

                     OSTERMANN
          Lise... I've heard they are training
          boys to be soldiers.  Is it true?

                     LISE
          It's appalling.  I wrote a letter,
          objecting.  They wrote back and
          said, "One would expect the wife of
          a combat officer to be more
          patriotic..."  Are the Russians
          really that close?

Before he can answer there is a knock on the door.  It is
Ostermann's Father, calling a single, garbled word...

                     FATHER
          Church?

                     LISE
          The bombers don't come on Sunday
          mornings.  And Reinhold is in the
          pulpit today.

He groans good-naturedly and drags himself out of bed.

INT.  CHURCH - DAY

We see the soaring interior of a stately German church, and
PAN slowly down from its loft arched ceilings, past its
magnificent stained glass windows, to the forest of candles
lighting its altar... but the serene beauty of the place is
jolted as we see the huge Nazi flags flanking the chancel.

The von Ostermann family sits in their customary pew, Klaus
in the center, his mother and father to his left, his wife
and son to his right.

Standing in the pulpit is an imposing figure:  REINHOLD VON
OSTERMANN.  He is handsome like his brother Klaus, and
powerfully built in the upper body -- but he grips the pulpit
to keep himself upright.

                     REINHOLD
          Welcome to you all!  It is good to
          see you here.

Klaus leans closer to Lise, and whispers...

                     OSTERMANN
          He looks thin.

                     LISE
          We are all thin.

                     OSTERMANN
          When did they put up the flag?

                     LISE
          When the government required the
          oath of loyalty from all churches.

                     OSTERMANN
          And Reinhold went along with that?

                     LISE
          He urged us to agree.  He has become
          much less argumentative.

As Lise says this, Ostermann's glance falls on a man sitting
across the church in the opposite pew.  He wears the uniform
of an Admiral in the German Navy; his name is CANARIS.
Admiral Canaris sees Ostermann looking at him, and Canaris,
seeing the recognition in Ostermann's face, looks away.

Then Ostermann glances around the church, behind him, and
spots several other men scattered about, MEN WE WILL SEE
LATER.  Their presence sets Ostermann's thoughts going, but
then his brother, REINHOLD OSTERMANN, begins to speak from
the pulpit.

As he speaks, we CIRCLE Reinhold, starting from the POV of
the families in the pews...

                     REINHOLD
          In the midst of our trials, we have
          much to be thankful for.  I am
          especially thankful this morning to
          see my brother Nicholas among us
          today.  I have always feared that if
          Klaus actually attended one of my
          sermons, the roof would fall in, and
          I give thanks that he is here, and
          so far the roof is holding.

The PAN reaches Reinhold's back, and from this POV we see the
reason he holds the pulpit for support:  his legs are
withered from polio; the steel braces strapped to his legs
show at his ankles, and his crutches are tucked beside the
pulpit.

                     REINHOLD
          In honor of my brother, I have
          chosen a special scripture this
          morning, Isaiah 40:01.  "They that
          wait upon the Lord shall renew their
          strength; they shall mount up with
          wings as eagles; they shall run, and
          not be weary; they shall walk, and
          not faint."

And the brother who never could run, looks down from the
pulpit at the brother who always could.

And then their Father, one side of his face twisted by the
stroke, begins to applaud -- just him, clapping his hands.
Everyone else sits in awkward silence, wondering if the old
man is insane, or the only sane one there.

EXT.  CHURCH - AFTER THE SERMON - DAY

The families are leaving; Reinhold shakes hands with his
father, kisses his mother's cheek, then embraces Klaus.
There is a great affection between the brothers.

                     REINHOLD
          I cannot come to dinner, I have a
          parish meeting that I cannot cancel.
          But stop by my office before it
          begins.

INT.  REINHOLD'S STUDY - DAY

Reinhold, talking as he limps along, leads Klaus in.

                     REINHOLD
          How do you like the flags?  Any
          church refusing to accept them has
          been closed down.  Ministers
          refusing the oath of loyalty have
          been taken away.  But the flags give
          the place a little color, don't you
          think?  And we'll need color when
          the stained glass windows are blown
          out.  We need to take them down and
          store them, but the government won't
          allow us to admit that Berlin is
          being bombed.

                     OSTERMANN
          Lise said you had mellowed.

                     REINHOLD
          Yes, can't you see how benign I am?

                     OSTERMANN
          I was at the War Ministry this
          morning --

                     REINHOLD
          Yes, your second Iron Cross.  I knew
          all about it, I am at the ministry
          regularly these days.  They need a
          chaplain, and every able bodied man
          is off to war.

                     OSTERMANN
          I spoke with Horst Bleicher --

                     REINHOLD
          A rising star in the SS.

                     OSTERMANN
          And he said you should be careful.

                     REINHOLD
          The SS don't take me seriously,
          Klaus.  Men who believe they are the
          Master Race don't feel much threat
          from a cripple.

                     OSTERMANN
          Reinhold --

                     REINHOLD
          You go into battles with the Black
          Eagles, while I stay in Berlin, and
          you tell me to be careful.  What
          does that say about the world we
          live in?

                     OSTERMANN
          How many good countries have been
          led by evil men?

                     REINHOLD
          None.  Not as long as they follow
          that evil.  We are in hell here, a
          hell of our own devising.  And I
          tell you this.  This country of ours
          -- this country of Martin Luther,
          and Bach, and Beethoven, this most
          Christian of countries -- will never
          be forgiven for what the man who
          leads us is doing, if someone
          doesn't stop him.

                     OSTERMANN
          Is it sermons like that -- or is it
          something else -- that makes Horst
          Bleicher warn me about you?

Reinhold looks away, and changes the subject.

                     REINHOLD
          You should speak to Father.  When
          the bomb sirens sound he refuses to
          leave the house and go to the
          shelters.  I think the bombing
          reminds him of the shellings in the
          trenches, and makes him feel like a
          soldier again.  Mother won't leave
          him alone, so she stays with him.
          Then Lise won't leave them, so she
          and Johann stay.  I've tried to talk
          to him, but he's always seen me as a
          weakling and a coward.  Maybe he
          will listen to you.

                     OSTERMANN
          You're no coward, Reinhold.  And no
          weakling.

The two brothers -- one the very model of a warrior, the
other a man of prayer; one with a muscular body of physical
power, the other twisted and crippled -- look at each other,
through that bond of having fought for each other, cared for
each other, through their whole lives.  The two brothers
embrace in farewell.

                     OSTERMANN
          You take care.

                     REINHOLD
          And you.

INT.  CHURCH SANCTUARY - DAY

Father Ostermann is standing at the front of the church,
staring at the altar; young Johann is standing beside his
feeble minded grandfather, keeping watch over the old man.
Lise and her mother-in-law are sitting in the sanctuary,
holding hands in the affectionate confidence of women.

                     LISE
          I wish Reinhold would come by for
          dinner.

                     MOTHER
          He won't.  He tries not to need
          us... I always wondered if Klaus had
          to make himself so strong, because
          Reinhold was so weak.

Klaus has moved up behind his mother and wife; he's heard.

                     OSTERMANN
          Reinhold is the strong one, Mother.

He kisses her on the cheek, then moves to his father.

                     OSTERMANN
          Ready, Father?

The old man nods toward the stained glass window he's been
staring at, behind the altar.

                     FATHER
          Reinhold.

Klaus is confused; what does his father mean?  He looks at
the stained glass; it is a depiction of the crucified Christ.
Klaus studies the picture; his gaze tracks down the crucified
body, to the legs on the cross, pale and twisted with the
crucifixion.  They do look like Reinhold's legs.

                     JOHANN
          Come on, Grandpapa.

The boy takes the old man's gnarled hand in his own, and the
old man follows his grandson happily.  Johann looks back at
his father and gives him a reassuring glance, and a smile
that tells him he will watch over this old man that both of
them love so much.

EXT.  CHURCH - DAY

Klaus Ostermann and his family walk home together, Klaus
waving back up to Reinhold, standing and waving at his
window.

INT.  REINHOLD OSTERMANN'S STUDY - DAY

Reinhold turns from his window, moving away swiftly, even on
his crutches.  He heads to a narrow elevator and uses it to
descend into the church's basement.

INT.  CHURCH BASEMENT - DAY

The basement is dark, murky.  Reinhold heads through dark
corridors, enters a door, and locks it behind him.  He turns
to face the room.  Six men sit there, the ones we saw
earlier; Canaris, three more officers in uniform, and two
more clergymen in civilian clothes.

                     REINHOLD
          Sorry.  My brother Klaus was here.

                     CANARIS
          He recognized me.

                     REINHOLD
          This is Berlin.  Where else would
          Admirals go to church?

                     CANARIS
          He knew.  When he saw me, it was in
          his eyes; he knew why I was here.

                     OFFICER
          How could he know -- unless someone
          told him?

                     REINHOLD
          No one told him.  My brother always
          knows things without being told.
          But I trust him with my life.

It is tense in the room; BONHOEFFER speaks up.  He is a
clergyman, in civilian clothes, in his mid-forties; he is
stocky, and wears bookish horn rims.  He has a gentle voice.

                     BONHOEFFER
          Fear is putting us all on edge, and
          we have no room for fear.
               (to the officer)
          Did you bring the device?

The officer opens a satchel, revealing demolition devices and
a detonator.

                     OFFICER
          The explosives are like they use on
          a farm.  They can't be traced to the
          military.

                     CANARIS
          The officers entering the meeting
          will be searched early, but we may
          have as much as an hour before he
          arrives.  We need to smuggle the
          bomb inside.  Does anyone have any
          idea how we might do that?

                     REINHOLD
          I do.

INT.  OSTERMANN HOUSE - OSTERMANN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Ostermann lies in Lise's arms; but he awakes to an unfamiliar
sound, a high-pitched wail.

                     OSTERMANN
          What -- ?

                     LISE
          Air raid sirens.

                     OSTERMANN
          We must get to a shelter!

                     LISE
          There will be a problem with your
          father.

INT.  OSTERMANN'S PARLOR - NIGHT

Ostermann enters the parlor, to find his father sitting
rigidly in his chair, grunting unintelligibly at his wife.

                     OSTERMANN
          Mother, please... get your coats.

                     MOTHER
          It's no use, he won't go.

She retrieves what her husband is asking for -- moaning for,
through his stroke-withered mouth:  she hands him his World
War I vintage helmet, and the old man puts it on his head,
sitting still and quiet.

Ostermann sees this, and understands.  With the distant sound
of the bombardment, and this World War I helmet on his gray
head, the old father feels like the young soldier he once
was, back in the trenches.  Lise enters, with Johann, both in
their coats.

                     OSTERMANN
          Lise, take Johann to the church.

                     LISE
          But --

                     OSTERMANN
          I will stay with them.  You go to
          the shelter!

                     LISE
          Come, Johann.  Come!

She takes the boy by the hand, but he pulls away.

                     JOHANN
          I'm staying here!  Grandmother and
          Grandfather need me!

Ostermann wants to argue, but the bombs are falling closer
now, it's too late for Lise and Johann to run to the shelter.
So Ostermann throws his arms around his family -- his wife,
his son, his mother and father, all in a circle -- and as the
bombs fall even closer now, and rattle the windows and shake
plaster dust from the ceiling of the old house, he holds his
family as if all by himself he could keep them safe.

Father Ostermann, in his World War I helmet, says in garbled
speech of a stroke victim --

                     FATHER
          Artillery.  The Doughboys attack at
          dawn.

Johann, his arm around his grandfather, pats his shoulder,
and looks across at Ostermann and gives him a smile, sharing
in his father's love, and in his courage, as the bombs fall.

EXT.  OSTERMANN HOUSE - DAY

The mists of morning and the smoke of bombing float over
Berlin.  Ostermann stands at the front door of his home,
bidding goodbye to his family.  His mother stands like a
stoic Prussian mother as her son kisses her, but tears run
down her face.  Ostermann turns to his father.

                     OSTERMANN
          Father... Reinhold and I talked
          about the bomb shelters --

                     FATHER
          Reinhold is not a soldier.

                     OSTERMANN
          But bombs can kill even soldiers --

The old man snaps to ramrod attention, and salutes; the
matter is closed.  Ostermann turns to Johann.

                     OSTERMANN
          Johann... look after your mother.

                     JOHANN
          I will, Papa.  And I'll look after
          Grandmama and Grandpapa too.

He hugs Johann, tousles the boy's hair, then turns to Lise
and hugs her tight, whispering in her ear...

                     OSTERMANN
          You must go to the shelters, with
          Johann.  Try to convince Father and
          Mother, but if you can't, then go
          without them -- but go.

                     LISE
          I can't leave them alone.

                     OSTERMANN
          You can't face the whole family's
          danger.

                     LISE
          No?  Look at you.

He kisses her.  Her lips tremble.  He draws her even closer.

                     OSTERMANN
          Don't worry.  I love you too much to
          let anything keep me from you.

They part.  Ostermann rubs Johann's head once more, then gets
into the car, with the driver that Bleicher loaned him, and
rides away, looking back one last time at his family, to
wonder if they are not in a more dangerous place than the one
he is going to.  As we DISSOLVE TO

EXT.  DEVASTATED CITY - DAY

Russian tanks and troops advance relentlessly against
defensive fire into a ravaged city.  It is snowing, a bleak
and desolate landscape of winter.

INT.  GERMAN COMMAND POST - DAY

A German GENERAL and his staff are in a fortified building on
a hill, looking through the smoke of battle out into the
battered city to see the fight raging.

OUTSIDE THE COMMAND POST

An SS halftrack races up, and out steps SS MAJOR KURTZ.  His
uniform is immaculate, his boots polished bright -- but he's
a warrior, with the scars to prove it.  He strides inside.

INT.  THE GERMAN COMMAND POST

Kurtz marches in briskly and hands the General a written
order.  The General reads, then glares.

                     GENERAL
          "Continue the attack?"  The attack
          was over weeks ago!  We're fighting
          to cover our retreat!

                     KURTZ
          There will be no retreat.

                     GENERAL
          How can we attack when we have no
          one left?

In the distance are explosions; the General looks through his
field glasses and speaks to his officers --

                     GENERAL
          The Russians are concentrating their
          fire on our forward units.

                     KURTZ
          Someone is fighting back.  Who is
          out there now?

                     GENERAL
          The Eagles -- or what's left of
          them.  When we last heard, they were
          down to Ostermann and a few others.

                     KURTZ
          Ostermann!  And you say you have no
          soldiers?

The General peers back out toward the fighting...

INT.  DEVASTATED FACTORY BUILDING - DAY

We are inside the shell of a giant factory, and it is a scene
out of hell.  Gray smoke, corpses everywhere.  Ostermann is
leading a handful of men against overwhelming odds.  He's
filthy and bloody.

Two Russian tanks are blocked by the rubble at the entrance
of the building; they keep blasting away.  As a dozen Russian
infantrymen swarm across the rubble, Ostermann shoves down
the plunger of a charge and detonates ambush explosives,
wiping them out.  More Russians take their place; Ostermann's
SERGEANT has lost hope.

                     EAGLES SERGEANT
          We are out of charges, sir!  And
          ammunition!

Just as the Sergeant says this, a Russian sniper drills him
through the head.  Ostermann and his last few men dive for
cover.  Ostermann looks around frantically.

                     OSTERMANN
          There is petrol in those tanks!  We
          can burn them back!  Come on!

Ostermann rushes forward, crouching beneath the fire and
taking out a Russian sniper with a shot from his machine
pistol as he runs.  Two of his men follow, then two more.
Three of them make it.  They crouch behind the shell of a
tank burning inside the cavernous factory.

Ostermann is about to fire at the fuel drums when one more of
his men is shot through the head.  Another sniper somewhere.
Ostermann scans the maze of superstructure in the factory's
ceiling, and raises his field glasses.

POV OSTERMANN - BINOCULARS

He searches the maze of steel rafters -- then he catches a
glimpse of a form... a Russian sniper with a scoped rifle,
who, just as he comes into focus, is raising his rifle and
aiming INTO LENS.  The muzzle FLASHES and

OSTERMANN

catches the bullet on the rim of the binoculars, driving them
into his eye socket.  He rolls on the ground and clutches at
the spurting blood.  His last two men try to help him, but
the first one and the other are drilled by the sniper.

The sniper starts to climb from his perch in the rafters when
Ostermann rolls over and fires, killing him.  The Russian
troops have freed the tanks and they are starting to move
forward when Ostermann rises, sprays the fuel drums with his
machine pistol, then throws in a grenade to ignite the blaze.
The whole place becomes

AN INFERNO

The Russians in the tanks are engulfed in flame.  The fire
spreads everywhere, driving the Russian troops back.

OUTSIDE THE FACTORY

A handful of battered German regular army troops shrink back
from the inferno; then, his clothes smoldering, blood still
running from the socket of his eye, Ostermann staggers out,
and collapses.  The soldiers start to move toward him, and
more Russians, moving around the building, shoot them all
down.

INT.  GERMAN COMMAND POST - DAY

A tattered infantry CAPTAIN stumbles in to report.

                     CAPTAIN
          Ostermann's dead.

                     GENERAL
          The rest of the Black Eagles?

                     SOLDIER
          Wiped out.  Ostermann beat back the
          Russian attack, but they're
          regrouping for another assault.

                     KURTZ
          Ostermann.  Even more glorious than
          he was at Stalingrad.

                     GENERAL
          Stalingrad was a defeat, Kurtz!
               (to his staff)
          Retreat immediately.  We must save
          the rest of our men.

The General leans over his maps, plotting their route out.
Kurtz puts a Luger to the base of the General's skull and
blows his brains over the maps.  The remaining regular
officers gape at Kurtz.

                     KURTZ
          Schmidt, you are now in command.
          And there will be no retreat.

Kurtz walks calmly out to his halftrack, where he rides away
from the Russian advance.

INT.  OSTERMANN HOUSE - NIGHT

Reinhold, his face sad as death, stands looking at Lise, to
whom he has just delivered the news.  Lise's body is
convulsing with the shock; Reinhold, standing a few feet away
from her, starts toward her on his crutches; just then Johann
bounces into the room.

                     JOHANN
          Mama, today in school I --

His cheerfulness is shattered by the sight of his mother.

                     JOHANN
          What is it?  What's wrong?

                     LISE
          Johann... please go prepare your
          lessons in the cellar.

                     JOHANN
          But --

                     LISE
          Johann, please!!

                     JOHANN
          No, something is wrong!  What is it?

Reinhold shuffles to his nephew, and struggles to kneel,
taking the boy gently by the arm.

                     REINHOLD
          Johann... your father... has been
          killed on the Russian front.

                     JOHANN
          No.  It isn't possible.

                     REINHOLD
          Johann, I'm afraid it --

                     JOHANN
          It isn't possible!  He's alive!

Lise is crying.  Johann moves to her and strokes her hair.

                     JOHANN
          It's all right, Mama, he'll come
          back.  And until he does I'll
          protect you, the way he would.

Lise touches her son's head, and she weeps.

INT.  BEER GARDEN - DAY

Bonhoeffer, the quiet clergyman from Reinhold's basement
meeting, sits at a booth table in the beer hall.  Reinhold
slides into the seat opposite him.

                     REINHOLD
          Klaus has been killed.

                     BONHOEFFER
          Reinhold... I am so sorry.

                     REINHOLD
          It was a matter of time.  A man who
          puts himself in harm's way will
          sooner or later have harm come to
          him.

                     BONHOEFFER
          How are your parents?

                     REINHOLD
          Devastated, of course.  I've just
          come from there.  They... there was
          nothing I could tell them to give
          them strength.

                     BONHOEFFER
          Didn't he have a wife?  And a child?

                     REINHOLD
          A son, yes.  His wife is in shock.
          His son -- he doesn't believe it
          yet.  He says his father can't be
          killed.

Reinhold looks away, keeping his emotions at arm's length.
From across the room comes a gale of laughter, as soldiers of
the SS, their eyes haunted and strained, drink with
bureaucrats who seems to have lost their grip on reality.

Bonhoeffer is about to speak when he spots a couple of men in
trench coats entering, with some Brownshirts.  He touches
Reinhold's arm to be sure he notices.

                     REINHOLD
          Bastards.  They know what's happened
          on the Russian front.  But they
          won't tell those louts over there.

                     BONHOEFFER
          I am sorry about Klaus.  I know you
          two were close.

                     REINHOLD
          He was the strong one.
               (laughs)
          I know that sounds funny, of course
          he was the strong one.  But everyone
          always seemed to believe that I had
          the most inner strength.  He
          protected me from bullies, from
          taunts and insults in the
          schoolyard.  But my parents -- and
          even Klaus himself -- thought I was
          the one with the inner strength,
          because I had so much of that sort
          of thing to carry.
               (chuckles)
          Klaus used to say I gave him
          strength.  Can you imagine!  But he
          was the one... he was the one...

Suddenly tears are spilling from Reinhold's eyes; he hides
his face in his hands, and sobs.  Then just as suddenly,
Reinhold pushes back his emotions, and sniffs hard.

                     REINHOLD
          But on to business.  Has a decision
          been made on my offer?

Bonhoeffer nods.  Across the room, one of the revelers sees
the Brownshirts who have entered.

                     REVELER
          Hans!  What news from the Front?

                     BROWNSHIRT
          We will slaughter the Russians until
          there is nothing left of them.

                     REVELER
          Until there is nothing left!  I'll
          drink to that!

                     BROWNSHIRT
          Sieg Heil!  Heil Hitler!  Heil
          Hitler!...

Everyone in the place gets up and starts the chant.  But
Reinhold's grief flashes into anger, and he mutters through
clenched teeth.

                     REINHOLD
          They can kill me, but I'll never
          give that salute.

Bonhoeffer leans across the table, his voice a hot, insistent
whisper.

                     BONHOEFFER
          You and I are going to die soon
          enough.  But it's going to be for
          more than this salute.

Bonhoeffer stands, pulls Reinhold to his feet, and throws
their hands into the air.

                     BONHOEFFER
          Heil Hitler!

                     REINHOLD
          Heil Hitler!

And the secret police in the corner see it all.

GRAY/BLUE - FILLING THE SCREEN

At first we don't know what we're seeing; it is the POV of
someone lying flat on the ground and staring up at A WINTER
SKY; clouds are blurry but gradually come into focus and then
go out again...

OSTERMANN

lies on his back upon, among dozens of other German soldiers
-- all of them dead -- being hauled in the back of an open
truck.

EXT.  FROZEN GROUND - DAY

A Russian bulldozer's blade bites into the frozen earth,
tearing a trench.  A truck brings in bodies and dumps them
into the trench.  The bodies -- German soldiers -- tumble
from the trucks into the trench, their dead limbs already
stiff.

All around is a wasteland, frozen, barren.  And we see the
losses of the German army; the trench looks a mile long.

As the trucks pull away, the bulldozer driver and the tractor
driver stop their work and climb from their machines, down
into the trench, where they begin looting the bodies of the
newly-arrived Germans.

Letters from home, pictures of families -- all that is junk
to the Russians, and they toss it to the ground.  Then one of
them finds a dagger, and decides to keep it.  His partner
finds a watch.  Then a good pair of boots.  A pair of gloves.
A wedding ring...

The ring is on the hand of Ostermann's body.  We see his dead
white face, the blood now frozen around the ruptured eye
socket.  As the bulldozer driver struggles to pull the ring
off, he doesn't see Ostermann's good eye come open... Then
Ostermann's free hand grabs the Russian by the throat.

The Russian tries to struggle, but Ostermann's will is too
great; gripping the Russian's windpipe, he snatches the
dagger from the man's pocket and drives it into his chest.

The other Russian, at first preoccupied trying to get the
boots off another frozen German, sees Ostermann.  Shocked, as
if he's seen a ghost, the Russian turns and tries to run,
over the bodies of the dead soldiers.

For a moment Ostermann doesn't move; it's as if he could only
find the strength to kill one more Russian.  Then he lifts
the dagger from the man he just killed and throws it; it
buries in the back of the fleeing Russian.

THE TRACTOR

being started.  The engine clatters to life.  Ostermann is at
the controls.  He shifts the tractor into gear and it lurches
off.  We PULL BACK to see what is before him:

ENDLESS FROZEN, BARREN LAND

all the way to the horizon.

OSTERMANN

starts off, heading west.

MONTAGE - OSTERMANN'S ORDEAL THROUGH THE SNOW

In an ordeal like Dr. Zhivago's, Ostermann travels westward
across the trackless, frozen wasteland.

First the tractor runs out of fuel, and he must walk.

Sometimes it is deathly still, with nothing but planes of
white beneath a gray sky...

Sometimes the wind blows so hard he can barely put one foot
in front of the other...

He has found a tattered blanket somewhere and uses it to
protect his hands, feet, and head; but his breath has frozen
on his face, and his eye is still a mass of frozen blood...

Finally, delirious, Ostermann hears a voice:

                     VOICE
          Halt!  Who goes there?  Stop or
          we'll shoot!

Ostermann staggers and falls face first into the snow.  He
lies there unconscious, finished.

Then two pairs of boots crunch up beside him; the toe of one
boot nudges Ostermann, but he does not react.  The boots
belong to two German sentries; they reach down and turn
Ostermann over.  It takes a moment to realize that this man
lying here is a soldier.

                                               SMASH CUT:

BLEICHER MARCHES INTO A FIELD HOSPITAL

and moves past cots full of wounded men, to where Ostermann
lies bandaged on a cot at the rear of the field hospital.

                     BLEICHER
          Klaus.

Ostermann turns his head, and opens the unbandaged eye.

                     BLEICHER
          It is a miracle.

INT.  TRANSPORT PLANE - DAY

Ostermann wears a uniform, but his eye is still bandaged and
he's weak from his ordeal.  Bleicher sits beside him, barely
able to contain his excitement.  He has brought a small box
of polished walnuts.

                     BLEICHER
          No one at Headquarters could believe
          it at first.  But I told them, if
          anyone could do this, it is Klaus
          von Ostermann!  These are for you.

He opens the presentation box and show him the three new
medals inside.  Ostermann doesn't react as Bleicher expects.

                     BLEICHER
          What's wrong?

                     OSTERMANN
          Before, such things seemed
          unnecessary.  Now they seem pitiful.

                     BLEICHER
          Pitiful?

                     OSTERMANN
          Look at the war, Horst.  Look close.
          I have.  And all I can see is
          defeat.

He tosses the box aside.  But Bleicher reacts patiently,
almost cheerfully.

                     BLEICHER
          No.  A time of crisis, yes.  A time
          of testing.  But we will prevail,
          Nicholas -- and how do I know?  You.
          You yourself are proof of it.  The
          Black Eagles, fighting to the last
          man... Klaus von Ostermann, being
          thrown into the mass grave, and
          rising from it... It is a symbol to
          inspire all of Germany!

From the pocket of his trenchcoat Bleicher pulls a copy of
the Beliner Beobachtet, Berlin's newspaper; he snaps it open
to show the banner headline, about OSTERMANN...

                     BLEICHER
          This morning's headline, from
          Berlin.  The tale of the Black
          Eagles.  And how you, their leader,
          killed two hundred Russians single
          handedly, and returned home
          unconquered -- and unconquerable!

                     OSTERMANN
          Two hundred Russians...?  Who wrote
          this shit?

                     BLEICHER
          ... I did.  I am the new Deputy of
          Public Information.

                     OSTERMANN
          There were no two hundred --

                     BLEICHER
          The doctors wired me the details of
          what you muttered in your delirium,
          perhaps they got it confused.  But
          the point is all the same.  We can
          win, Klaus.  Hitler believes it!
          And Hitler is Germany.

Bleicher gathers up the medals, puts them back into the box,
and places it into Ostermann's hands.

EXT.  LANDING STRIP - DAY

The plane touches down on a small landing strip and taxis to
a stop.  A ground crewman opens the plane's door; Ostermann,
following Bleicher, emerges and is surprised to see such a
small landing field in an open field.

                     BLEICHER
          The main field is being repaired.

                     OSTERMANN
          More bombs that didn't fall?

                     BLEICHER
          We have strengthened the air
          defenses, and never again will enemy
          planes --

He's interrupted by a growing rumble from above.  They look
up to see formations of bombers rumbling high above them.

They run for a bomb shelter, near the hanger.  But Ostermann
stops at the entrance, and listens.  An airplane CREWMAN
urges him inside.

                     CREWMAN
          Come on!

But Ostermann waits, still listening.  The bombers are
passing overhead, moving deeper into the city.

                     OSTERMANN
          They're not bombing the airfield.
          They're bombing the city.

                     BLEICHER
          Klaus, no -- !

                     OSTERMANN
          My family is there!

He breaks from Bleicher, and runs to the hanger, where there
is a German field car, like an open jeep.

EXT.  BERLIN - DAY

The air raid sirens are wailing, and Lise is leading Johann
to the shelter below the church.

                     JOHANN
          But what about Grandmother and
          Grandfather?

                     LISE
          They feel safe where they are -- and
          we feel safer here.

She pulls him on.  They reach the church, and move down an
outer flight of stone stairs down to

THE AIR RAID SHELTER

Frightened people are crowding in; it is chaos inside.  And
Johann tries to be calm, like his father.

                     JOHANN
          They're all frightened, Mother.  I
          will help here at the door.
               (to the people)
          Move inside, please, just stay calm,
          there's room for everybody.

Quietly, she is proud of him.  As a mother stumbles past with
two babies in her arms and a hysterical toddler at her feet,
Lise lifts the toddler in her own arms and helps the mother
to a far corner of the church basement.

Two of the last people through the door are an elderly
couple, much like Johann's grandmother and grandfather.
Seeing them there and safe stabs him; he looks back to the
door and sees it is about to be closed.  At the last moment,
he darts through the opening.  The man at the door yells --

                     MAN
          Hey!

But Johann is out and running.  The sound of falling bombs is
already echoing over the city; reluctantly the door keeper
shuts the big door.

JOHANN

runs through the streets; he reaches his home and goes in.

INT.  OSTERMANN HOUSE - PARLOR - DAY

The old grandfather sits there in stubborn oblivion in his
World War I helmet, grandmother faithfully beside him.

                     GRANDMOTHER
          Johann!

                     JOHANN
          Don't worry.  We're all going to be
          all right.

And just as his father did, he sits down and puts his arms
around both of them.

INT.  BOMB SHELTER - DAY

Lise has helped the toddler quiet down, and has found the
mother a comfortable place to rest in the corner.  Now Lise
looks around.

                     LISE
          Johann...?  Johann?

EXT.  THE SKIES ABOVE BERLIN - AN AMERICAN B-17 BOMBER - DAY

A vast flock of bombers rumbles above the clouds, as flak
rips black holes in the sky around them.  We push in on

INT.  ONE OF THE BOMBERS - DAY

JIM CRANE, a bombardier-navigator, sits at his bomb sight and
works math calculations, as the plane is buffeted.  He
presses the intercom pickup to his throat and shouts --

                     CRANE
          If you want me to hit anything you
          better steady this thing down!

THE PILOT, IN HIS COCKPIT, responds.

                     PILOT
          It's broad daylight over Berlin,
          Crane!  Or didn't you notice.

                     CRANE
          Fuck you.

HICKS, one of the bomb crew, screams from his waist gun --

                     HICKS
          We got fighters coming!

Messerschmidts shriek through the formation, and Crane jumps
to the door gun opposite Hicks.  A fighter plane, already
trailing smoke, screams past and Crane and Hicks pour tracers
into its fuselage; the plane explodes in a fireball in front
of the B-17, and the bomber pilot must jerk the controls to
avoid the wreckage.  As he does so --

BACK IN THE BOMB BAYS a thousand-pound bomb bounces off its
rack and lodges in the bomb bay, jamming the doors slightly
open.  Other bombs tumble on top of it.

                     GUNNER (INTERCOM)
          We got bombs off the racks!

                     PILOT (INTERCOM)
          Crane!  Get back there, see what you
          can do!

Crane tears the headphones off and races back through the
belly of the plane, dodging along the catwalks.  He reaches
the waist gunner, who is looking down in terror:  the wind
rushing through the partially jammed doors is SPINNING THE
PROPELLER on a BOMB'S NOSE.

                     WAIST GUNNER
          They're armed!  Fuckin' bombs are
          armed!

                     CRANE
          We gotta crank the doors!

The two of them move to the crank station, and start gingerly
trying to open the bays beneath the now-live 1,000 pound
bombs.  The bombs shift... and jam again.  They hang like
logs over the open, empty sky.

Crane sees he has no choice... He spreads his arms, catches
hold of either side of the bomb racks and begins to jump up
and down on the bombs to get them loose.

                     GUNNER
          Those things are live!

                     CRANE
          Just stay calm!

Crane is anything but calm -- and the waist gunner has closed
his eyes to say his last prayers, as Crane jumps on the bombs
again and again... The bombs break loose and fall, and so
does Crane.  But he catches himself, and dangles over empty
space.

The gunner grabs Crane, and helps him onto the catwalk.
Crane races back to his bombsight.

THE GROUND - POV THROUGH BOMB SIGHT

The target crawls into view, as the cross hairs of the bomb
sight begin to converge.

                     PILOT (INTERCOM)
          Thirty seconds to target.

Crane leans over the sight and blocks out the battle raging
around him.  Suddenly the plexiglass nose bubble is
perforated with bullets as the German pilots now attack
directly at the bomber's nose.  Messerschmidts shriek in,
guns blazing, their bullets chewing up everything around
Crane.  He screams in terror and rage, draws his .45, and
fires wildly through the broken plexiglass.

He comes to his senses and sees Hicks gawking at him.

                     CRANE
          Just stay calm!!

Crane turns back to his bombsight and works his calculations.
In his viewfinder, the factory crawls into the cross hairs,
and he toggles away his bombs.  All the other bombers,
following Crane's, release after him, and the sky is filled
with falling bombs.

EXT.  OSTERMANN'S DASH INTO BERLIN - DAY

Ostermann barrels into Berlin, over rutted roads, with most
of the streets clear already; those civilians and soldiers
still outside are running for shelter.

At first he can hear -- but not yet see -- the impacts;
blasts shake the ground, and the pounding beat of bombs
rumble like a massive earthquake.  He drives wildly toward
the city center -- then --

A BLAST shatters the building he is passing, throwing debris
everywhere in his path... Ostermann emerges from the debris,
driving through it, barreling on.

ANOTHER BLAST levels a building in front of him, throwing
chunks of concrete and brick into the street, blocking his
way.  Ostermann slams on the brakes, reverses, darts off to
find another way around.

He drives down another long street, and reaches another
blockage in the street; he is close to home, and jumps out to
go on foot.

EXT.  BERLIN - VARIOUS - DAY

The bombs hit buildings:  a factory... a government
building... and the Ostermann house.

EXT.  BERLIN - OSTERMANN

Ostermann is not far from his home, and the closeness of the
blast sends terror into him; he begins to run in rising
panic, racing on foot toward his home.

The closer he gets, the greater his fear becomes.  He passes
more shattered buildings; the devastation is greater here.
He runs, faster and faster, until he comes to the spot where
his house used to be.  It is now --

A BLACK CRATER IN THE GROUND

still smoking from a direct hit by a bomb.  It is directly in
front of what used to be the Ostermann home -- now a pile of
rubble.

                     OSTERMANN
          NO!!  NO!!!

The rubble still smokes; in panic he begins tearing through
it.

And he comes upon Johann's body.

For a moment, all the life goes out of Ostermann.  All he's
been through -- the fighting, the wounds, the miles through
the wastes of Russia -- have been nothing compared to this
moment.  At first it's like he's died; then grief rips from
him --

                     OSTERMANN
          JOHANN!!  My son!  My son!

He grips his son's lifeless body.

                                                  CUT TO:

UP IN THE BOMBER FORMATION

Crane uses the belly periscope to peer back...

POV THE PERISCOPE... Berlin lies far below, fires burning
everywhere.  As Crane sits back, Hicks takes a look too,
seeing the destruction.

                     HICKS
          My God... Poor buggers.

                     CRANE
          They started this war.  They follow
          Hitler.  Hell with all of 'em.

Suddenly the whole bomber shudders.

                     PILOT
          We're hit!... We're going down,
          everybody into their chutes!

As he says this another pass by a fighter sends bullets
ripping through the cockpit, killing the co-pilot and
wounding the pilot; he fights to level the plane...

CRANE shatters his bombsight with shots from his .45, and
struggles through the wildly pitching plane, fighting to pull
on his chute.  He drags himself to the open door, and with
the plane rolling into its last spiral he heaves himself into
the sky...

EXT.  BERLIN - NEAR OSTERMANN HOUSE - DAY

The All Clear Siren is sounding; Lise moves with the crowd of
others out of the shelter.  There were so many people inside,
and she's still looking for Johann.

                     LISE
          Johann?!...

There is smoke all around; it is unsettling, but she keeps
moving toward home.  And then stops like she's seen a ghost;
she sees her husband, Klaus von Ostermann, standing like a
statue in the smoke.  She stops; then her steps quicken.
It's him.

                     LISE
          Klaus -- ?  It can't -- Klaus!!
          You're alive!

She rushes at him, throws herself onto his chest, weeping,
feeling that he is truly alive.

                     LISE
          It is you!  You're alive!  Alive!

But why isn't he responding?  She looks at his face, sees the
stunned grief there; she looks over his shoulder, and sees
the rubble of the house.

And all of it floods in on her.  Not just Grandmother and
Grandfather, but also --

                     LISE
          JOHANN!!!

Ostermann grips her; he won't let her go see.

Down the street, Bleicher has arrived in his car; the debris
has stopped them, but from the car Bleicher sees Ostermann
and his wife, and the rubble where they used to live.

INT.  CHURCH - NIGHT

Klaus Ostermann and his wife sit side by side, still holding
each other in stunned grief.  Reinhold is at the altar, his
hand shaking as he lights memorial candles to his mother,
father, and nephew Johann.  Back in the pew, Lise begins
again to weep.

                     LISE
          It was my fault, Klaus.  My fault!

                     OSTERMANN
          No, Lise... No...

                     LISE
          My fault!

He hugs her tight to his chest, and whispers, like a man
pronouncing his own death sentence...

                     OSTERMANN
          Not your fault.  It was mine.  He
          wanted to be like me.  I liked that,
          too much to stop him.

The door at the back of the church opens with a ponderous
creak that disturbs the quiet of the church; then the scrape
of heavy black boots entering.  It is Bleicher.  First
Reinhold and then Klaus Ostermann notice the SS Colonel.

Bleicher strides forward, his boots echoing loudly on the
stone floor of the church.  He stops before Klaus and Lise.

                     BLEICHER
          I am sorry.  For all of you.  Klaus
          -- could we speak?  I know --
          forgive me, please, it is only for a
          moment, and it is important.

Ostermann sees it is quicker to hear him out than to argue;
he stands and ushers Bleicher to the rear of the church.

                     BLEICHER
          I am sorry to disturb you at this
          awful time.  But what we need done,
          it may help you in dealing with this
          tragedy you've just suffered.

He hands Ostermann a sealed envelope, marked "SECRET."

                     BLEICHER
          You can read it tonight.  But you
          need to leave tomorrow.

                                                  CUT TO:

CLOSE - A CONCRETE CEILING, SHAKING

as we hear the muffled rumble of a bomb, and the light from
the bare electric bulb hanging from the ceiling flickers; we
are --

INT.  THE CHURCH CELLAR

which serves now as a bomb shelter.  Forty or fifty Berliners
are huddled there, including Klaus and Lise Ostermann, while
Reinhold moves among his terrified parishioners.  Some are
shaking with fright; others stare in shock and disbelief that
their city is being blasted apart above them; Reinhold
comforts them all, paying particular attention to the sobbing
children, and giving his parishioners a few comforting words.

                     REINHOLD
          Shhh... It's going to be all right.

A HYSTERICAL LADY cries out...

                     HYSTERICAL LADY
          They promised us Berlin would never
          be bombed!  Now it is attacked both
          night and day!

                     REINHOLD
          Don't worry, God knows we are here.

A blast that was very close shakes the ground again.
Reinhold totters, and forces a smile.

                     REINHOLD
          Apparently the bombs do too.

ON KLAUS AND LISE OSTERMANN

Lise sees, sitting in the same corner, the same mother with
the three children, whom she helped earlier that day.

CLOSE ON LISE, as she looks at them, and changes come over
Lise's face; her grief becomes confusion, then concern, then,
ultimately, compassion.  She mutters to Klaus...

                     LISE
          Her husband... and two of her
          children... have been killed.  I was
          helping her when --

Lise can't say anything else.  The widowed mother's babies
are crying again.  Lise squeezes Klaus' hand, stands, and
moves over to help the widowed mother again, and holds one of
the crying babies.

Ostermann, left alone, remembers the orders in his pocket.
He takes them out, opens the sealed orders, and reads them;
he freezes, and then reads them again.  Reinhold, standing in
the middle of the shelter comforting parishioners, sees him
do it.

Another bomb falling somewhere overhead makes the lights go
completely off for a long moment; then when they come back
on, Ostermann is sitting with his head lowered.

Reinhold sees his brother stand and move to the door.

Klaus leaves the shelter; we FOLLOW as he moves upstairs
through the darkened church, into the darkened sanctuary lit
only by the moonlight coming through the stained glass
windows.  The sound of the bombing is louder now, but it is a
strangely serene and beautiful place now, this empty
sanctuary, surrounded by bombing.

Ostermann moves to a pew near the altar, and sits down.

He looks at the orders in his hand.

He looks up at the altar, at the stained glass, lit by the
moonlight.

He looks toward heaven, then lowers his head.

He lifts his head to see Reinhold standing there, worried
enough about his brother to have climbed out of the shelter
and come up into the sanctuary during the bombing.

                     REINHOLD
          I don't think I've ever seen you
          pray.

                     OSTERMANN
          That doesn't mean I didn't.

Reinhold takes a place in the pew beside Klaus, and glances
down at the folded orders in his brother's hand.

                     REINHOLD
          For some time now, they're been
          sending me children whose parents
          have been killed in the war.  The
          Reich has so many orphans now, they
          don't know what else to do with
          them.  Perhaps Lise could stay here
          with me, and help with the school
          I've started.  It may help her too.

Ostermann can only nod his gratitude for his brother's
kindness.  Bombs RUMBLE outside, close enough to shake the
stone walls of the church.

                     OSTERMANN
          You should go back down to the
          shelter.  You have a flock, and
          you're their shepherd.

                     REINHOLD
          I'm not afraid to die.  Something in
          those orders has made you the same
          way.  I am your brother -- and your
          pastor.  Do you want to tell me what
          is in them?

                     OSTERMANN
          They want me to go to a POW camp,
          where there are five thousand
          American prisoners.  The men who fly
          those bombers up there.  And they
          want me to kill them.

                     REINHOLD
          This is Hitler's madness.  Let the
          Third Reich destroy everything, so
          the Forth Reich can rise... What
          will you do?

Ostermann just shakes his head.

                     REINHOLD
          God has hope, even when we do not.

                     OSTERMANN
          There is no hope for me, Reinhold.
          And no future.  Take care of Lise
          for me.  She deserves a tomorrow.

He lifts his head, and looks again at the huge darkened
sanctuary.  All is strangely quiet.  Then he hears a faint
noise:  the WHISTLE OF A FALLING BOMB, growing stronger...

THE BLAST is not far outside the wall of the church; it blows
the stained glass into a million colored bits.  Ostermann
dives for cover beneath the pew, pulling Reinhold down to
cover, as the shards of the church's once magnificent windows
shower over them.

EXT.  CHURCH - MORNING

The sunlight is thin and smoky as dawn comes to Berlin.
Outside the church, the parishioners emerge from the shelters
and make their way through the rubble, returning home to see
if their homes are still there.

INT.  THE CHURCH - MORNING

Sunlight streams in through the opening where the stained
glass window was.  Lise and Reinhold are sweeping shards of
glass from the pews and floor.

Ostermann is ready to leave again.  He looks at Lise.  In the
dustiness of the damaged, yet still beautiful church, she
looks like a Vermeer painting.  She stops and looks up at
him, all the emotions buried now, yet reflected on her face.
She knows he is leaving, and may not come back; she knows she
can do nothing about it.  She forces a smile -- a sad,
tearful smile -- waves... and keeps on sweeping.

Ostermann looks at Reinhold, looks back at Lise one last
time, and walks away.

EXT.  SS INTERROGATION FACILITY - NIGHT

A castle on the outskirts of Berlin, taken over by Hitler's
elite.  As the troopers who took him prisoner drive him up in
the jeep, Crane hears screams of men being tortured...

A SMASH CUT INTO CRANE'S FACE --

INT.  STONE ROOM

Crane is tied to a chair, and spitting blood.

                     CRANE
          How long before you guys get it --

They hit him again.  Bleicher moves into the light.  Crane
speaks through bloody lips.

                     CRANE
          I've given my name, rank, and serial
          number.  That's all I know.

                     BLEICHER
          No.  You know much more than that.

Bleicher nods to his goons, who throw a rope over a beam in
the ceiling.  The other end ties to a razor sharp meat hook;
they force Crane's mouth open and place the point of the hook
against the roof of his mouth.  They hoist him to his feet,
so that he's stretched out on tiptoe to keep the hook from
punching into his sinuses.

                     BLEICHER
          The pilot who shot down your
          aircraft said it was the lead
          bomber.  And you were its
          bombardier.

One of the goons takes out pliers and grabs Crane's hand.
Crane struggles not to flinch; the slightest movement will
send the razor sharp hook into his mouth.

                     BLEICHER
          So you know the targets.

They rip off a fingernail; Crane screams in agony.

EXT.  CASTLE COURTYARD - DAY

Ostermann arrives, driven by an SS corporal; as Ostermann
steps from the truck, he hears Crane's screams.  Ostermann
turns to the DRIVER.

                     OSTERMANN
          An SS Interrogation Facility?

                     DRIVER
          This is where I was told Colonel
          Bleicher would be.

Ostermann moves into the building.

INT.  CASTLE - INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

Bleicher is focused on Crane's agonies, and doesn't seem to
notice Ostermann's arrival.

                     BLEICHER
          No no, do not struggle.  The hook
          will puncture the roof of your mouth
          and pierce your sinuses.  I
          understand it's quite painful.  And
          if you should faint from the pain,
          the hook could penetrate to your
          brain.  If you have one.

Bleicher smiles.  Crane struggles to maintain a perfect
stillness against the excruciating pain.

                     BLEICHER
          Now.  Our fighters said the lead
          bomber -- your plane -- deviated
          from the group and dropped its bombs
          squarely over the city.  Who were
          you trying to hit?  Hidden shelters?
          Intelligence personnel?  Please tell
          us, we'd like to know.

Ostermann stands watching, and if he looked tough before, now
he looks like his soul is made of titanium.  His unpatched
eye is distant and steely; as he hears that Crane is a flyer
who dropped bombs on Berlin the previous day, Ostermann's
stare takes on a focus.

They rip off another fingernail.  Crane nearly faints; blood
runs from the corners of his mouth.  Ostermann does not
flinch.

                     BLEICHER
          Steady now!  Where were they going?
          Of course if you want to die as a
          war criminal, that is up to you.

They rip another nail.  Crane, still on the hook, wobbles
from the blinding pain, barely able to hang onto
consciousness, and life.

                     BLEICHER
          It's useless.

                     OSTERMANN
          No.  Wait.

Surprised, almost amused, Bleicher pauses; he watches as
Ostermann moves over, and stares at Crane.

                     OSTERMANN
          You dropped bombs on civilians.  Did
          you know that?  Do you regret that?

Crane seems to be trying to say something; then he spits a
stream of blood onto Ostermann's face.

                     CRANE
          I regret I didn't have more bombs to
          drop.

Ostermann snatches his pistol and jabs its muzzle into
Crane's eye.  Ostermann's hand shakes with anger; grief and
fury fill his face.  Everyone in the room, especially Crane,
is sure he's going to pull the trigger.  But something stops
him; he grabs Crane by the hair with his free hand, lifts him
off the hook, and slings him into the corner.

Bleicher nods, amused.

                     BLEICHER
          Put him in the truck with the
          others.

INT.  CASTLE GREAT HALL - DAY

The Great Hall of the Castle has a huge roaring fireplace,
and rich food laid out on the polished dining table, an SS
luxury in vivid contrast to the deprivations of the common
people.  Bleicher picks a grape from a big bowl full of them
and pops it in his mouth as he says to Ostermann...

                     BLEICHER
          That was smart of you.  Keeping him
          alive, showing up with him at the
          camp, will quiet any suspicions the
          other prisoners have about the
          future.  I get carried away; that's
          why I need specialists like you.
          You've seen your orders?

Ostermann nods.

                     BLEICHER
          Are you prepared to carry them out?

                     OSTERMANN
          I am prepared to do what I must do.

                     BLEICHER
          Good.  I have sent a man ahead to
          scout the situation for you -- he's
          quite proficient.  Tonight I will
          send a dozen of our best men along
          with you, to help in preparations.
          Then a column of the Liebstandart
          will arrive day after tomorrow, to
          assist however you direct them.

                     OSTERMANN
          Liebstandart?

                     BLEICHER
          Hitler's personal regiment.  It is a
          great honor.

Ostermann nods, his face as cold as death.

INT.  REAR OF TRUCK - NIGHT

A group of captured flyers sit in the rear of a German truck;
most are banged up from bailing out; a couple are burned from
fires within their planes.  The back flaps of the truck snap
open and SS troopers dump Crane, semi-conscious, into the
rear of the truck with the rest of the captured flyers.
Another of the captured flyers, HICKS, scoot over to him, as
the truck begins to move.

                     HICK
          Crane!... Aw, Jimmy... you musta
          stood up to 'em, huh?...

INT.  SS CAR - DRIVING THROUGH THE NIGHT

Ostermann rides in the rear, the lone passenger in the back
of a black SS Mercedes.  His face is blank, his thoughts
distant and impenetrable.

Behind his car is a truck full of SS troopers, and behind
that a truck with the captured flyers.  Then, far up ahead,
he sees lights...

EXT.  PRISON CAMP - NIGHT

Stalag Luft III rises from the frozen ground, a nasty gray
place where powerful beam searchlights from the guard towers
sweep double rows of barbed wire surrounding the camp.  The
car reaches the gate; the driver shows papers to the guard,
who looks in to see Ostermann.  The guard steps back and
allows the car and then the truck to pass.

EXT.  PRISON CAMP - NIGHT

The car and trucks roll into the camp compound.  Ostermann's
car stops in front of the office block, the only painted
structure inside the barbed wire, and Ostermann emerges from
the car, to enter the camp's office compound.

INT.  PRISON CAMP OFFICE - NIGHT

FARBER, an SS Major, sits at the camp Commandant's desk.  One
of Farber's men -- dressed, like Farber, in the black uniform
of the SS, with Death's Head insignia -- is bringing him a
cup of coffee just as Ostermann walks in, erect, soldierly in
his greatcoat.

                     FARBER
          Ah, Ostermann, we've been wondering
          when you were going to turn up.
          Want some coffee?  It's quite good,
          American!  The Red Cross sends it
          over for the prisoners.

Farber's SS aide chuckles as he pours another cup and offers
it to Ostermann; when Ostermann says nothing, the aide takes
it for himself and sits down beside the desk to read mail
from the open Red Cross packet beside him; Farber is doing
the same thing, and laughs at one of the letters.

                     FARBER
          Here's a good one!  Oh, Ostermann,
          how's your English?

                     OSTERMANN
          I learned in school.

                     FARBER
          Then listen to this one.  This girl
          writes, "... Johnny, I think of you
          until my heart aches.  I feel you on
          my lips, your breath upon my
          hair..."  American girls write such
          great letters!

He tosses the letter down and leans back, putting his feet on
the desk.

                     FARBER
          So how do you like the camp?  Ugly,
          huh?  We do these men a favor to
          shoot them.

Ostermann glances at Farber's aide.

                     FARBER
          Don't worry, my men know why we're
          here.  It's a garbage detail, but
          it's actually quite relaxing.  We've
          got it under control.  I guess
          Bleicher felt we ought to have an
          infantry technician around.  There
          has been some sloppiness in previous
          mass eliminations of prisoners --

Suddenly Ostermann kicks over the chair Farber's aide was
sitting in, sending the aide spilling backwards onto the
floor; then Ostermann kicks Farber's chair, sending him
flying back against the wall.

                     OSTERMANN
          Stand up.

It is an order meant to be obeyed; reflexively the aide
responds by snapping to attention; with Farber it is the
surprise, along with the threat of Ostermann's battle face,
that brings him to his feet.

                     OSTERMANN
          I am a Colonel, you are a Major.
          You are SS, and this is an SS
          operation, but I am your superior,
          especially when the shooting starts.
          So you'll stand up and salute when I
          enter a room, you will speak only
          when I speak to you, and you will
          follow my orders to the letter.  Is
          that clear?

                     FARBER
          Clear, Sir.

                     OSTERMANN
          Pick up that chair.

Farber picks up the desk chair, and Ostermann sits down in
it.  He glares at the SS aide, who suddenly gets the idea and
clears the stuff off the desk.  Ostermann removes his hat and
places it onto the clean desk.

                     OSTERMANN
          You have a diagram of the camp?  A
          complete roll of the prisoners?  Get
          them.

The SS aide jumps into action, spreading the camp diagram out
on the desk, and placing a roster of prisoners out too.

                     OSTERMANN
          How many?

                     FARBER
          Nine-thousand nine hundred twelve as
          of this afternoon.

                     OSTERMANN
          And the guards?

                     FARBER
          Typical Luftwaffe.  One hundred
          twenty fat old men, all under Major
          Kohlmeyer, who thinks he is the
          spirit of the Red Baron.

                     OSTERMANN
          You have studied the status of
          prisoners since you've been here?

                     FARBER
          What do you mean?

                     OSTERMANN
          You plan to shoot ten thousand men!
          If not done properly this can get
          quite dangerous.  Do they have
          leaders?  Are they organized at all,
          so that they might fight back?

                     FARBER
          You mean a Suicide Squad.  That's
          what they call it.  They have men
          who have chosen to die rather than
          be killed.

                     OSTERMANN
          How do you know this?

                     FARBER
          We have run many camps.  All
          Americans think the same.  Look at
          this, which we took from the body of
          a prisoner trying to escape.  He had
          documents -- the prisoners make
          their own paper, and make stamps by
          carving them from potatoes.  They
          scrape blankets, and make German
          style clothes.  They are crafty,
          these Americans.

                     OSTERMANN
          Sounds like they want to live.
          Tomorrow, we will start to
          disappoint them.

                     FARBER
          Tomorrow?  The column from Berlin
          won't be here until the day after.

                     OSTERMANN
          I want to start shooting them right
          away.  Their leaders first.

                     FARBER
          But -- Sir, the plan --

                     OSTERMANN
          The plan is what I say it is.  I
          have devised a way to separate the
          fitter prisoners from the rest, and
          to eliminate them first.  Then the
          others will go like sheep.  What's
          wrong, are you afraid to fight?

                     FARBER
          No Sir, we --

But Ostermann is already walking into the sleeping quarters,
off the main office; he looks around at Farber's personal
belonging's, arranged there.

                     OSTERMANN
          Get your shit out of my room.

EXT.  PRISON CAMP - NIGHT

The SS troopers unload from their truck in strict order.

INT.  PRISONER BARRACKS - NIGHT

Three men peer out from a darkened barracks and watch gravely
as these new SS troopers arrive.  The three Americans are
JACKSON, early forties, a colonel in the U.S. Army Air
Corps, ranking officer among the POW's; BOYLE, one of the
ranking British airmen in the camp; and BENTON, a lean, hard-
eyed American, head of the secret Suicide Squad.

                     JACKSON
          SS troops.  Can you make out
          their weapons?

                     BOYLE
          Small arms.  But who knows what
          they've got in the trucks.

                     BENTON
          They didn't come to dance with us.

Jackson turns from the window, his face lined with concern.

                     BENTON
          You say the word, Sir, me and my
          boys'll take over this camp and kill
          every Nazi bastard in it.

                     JACKSON
          And then what?

                     BENTON
          Hard-ass it to the American lines.

                     JACKSON
          I've got eight thousand men here,
          most of whom can barely walk, and
          the American lines are forty miles
          away.

                     BOYLE
          The Russians are closer.

                     JACKSON
          May be closer.  And the Russians
          shoot any of their own people who
          allowed themselves to be taken
          prisoner -- God knows what they'd do
          to us, even if we made it past the
          Germans.

                     BENTON
          So you just want to sit while the
          Germans shoot us?

                     JACKSON
          You listen to me, Benton!  I'm
          ranking officer among the POW's and
          I'm responsible for their lives.
          You can stew all you want to about
          calling out the Suicide Squad, but I
          mean to get you home alive, all of
          you!  If that means I've got to risk
          everything, I'll do it -- but not
          until I've tried every alternative
          first.

The door opens; Benton spins and jabs a makeshift blade, made
from a doorhinge, to the intruder's throat.  But it's one of
the POW's, DOC.

                     BENTON
          Doc.

                     DOC
          One of the new arrivals -- he's had
          fingernails ripped off...

INT.  PRISONER BARRACKS - NIGHT

Thin moonlight slides through the frosty window, in the
light-out barracks.  Crane, his wounds newly cleaned and
bandaged, lies asleep on the bunk.

Suddenly someone clamps a hand around Crane's mouth; he
wakes, but is pinned down by Benton and Boyle.

IN THE BARRACKS CORNER BY JACKSON'S BUNK

Benton and Boyle deliver Crane to a secret huddle of hard
looking POW's, in a corner of the barracks lit by the
moonlight.  Jackson leads the meeting, in a low voice.

                     JACKSON
          Sorry for the surprise, but this
          meeting is by invitation only.  I'm
          Jackson.  Gentlemen, Lieutenant
          James Crane.  Whatta they call you,
          Crane?  Jimmy?

                     CRANE
          Mostly they call me Asshole.  But
          when they get to know me they're not
          so polite.

                     JACKSON
          If anybody in this camp ever asks,
          this meeting didn't happen, and you
          won't recognize any of the faces
          around you.  Judging from your
          missing fingernails, that won't be a
          problem.

                     BENTON
          Maybe he was just lippy to the
          Krauts.

                     CRANE
          Fuck you very much.  Who are you
          guys?

                     BENTON
          We're the Suicide Squad.

                     CRANE
          Attract a lot of applications with
          that name?

                     BENTON
          We've taken an oath that the Krauts
          won't shoot us like dogs.  If we
          have to, we throw our bodies on the
          barbed wire and take the gun towers.

                     JACKSON
          And tough enough to let the SS rip
          off fingernails without telling 'em
          anything.  We think you'd belong in
          our little group.

                     CRANE
          How long you been here?

                     JACKSON
          Three years, since '42.

                     CRANE
          How many escapes?

                     JACKSON
          Thirty-eight attempts.

                     CRANE
          How many made it?

                     JACKSON
          Two.  We think.

                     BENTON
          You got a problem, Crane?

                     CRANE
          Yeah, I got a problem.  I don't
          throw in with pussies.

Benton jerks to his feet, but Jackson stops him.

                     JACKSON
          Benton!

                     CRANE
          Suicide Squad, my ass.  I'm not
          killing myself, I'm killing Krauts.
          And I'm getting out of here, alive.

                     LOOKOUT
          Somebody's coming!

The men all try to take casual positions; Ostermann enters
the room, flanked by camp guards, HANS and HERMANN.  They
switch on a single light bulb at the end of the barracks.
Then Ostermann tells the guards...

                     OSTERMANN
          Leave us.

The guards leave, reluctantly.  Now Ostermann is alone with
the core of the POW leadership.  The POW's eye this new
arrival, who looks so fierce and stiff to them.  Ostermann
stares at them in return.  Ostermann studies the faces, and
finds the one he thinks belongs to Jackson.

                     OSTERMANN
          You are Colonel Jackson -- head of
          the Prisoner command committee?

                     JACKSON
          I'm Jackson.

                     OSTERMANN
          I am Colonel Klaus von Ostermann.  I
          have been ordered to direct
          operations to have you all shot.

For a moment after this blunt declaration, the Americans sit
in icy silence, broken by Benton.

                     BENTON
          I wish we'd bombed every one of
          their cities straight to hell.

Ostermann stands stiffly, making the enormous effort not to
erupt.  Then he speaks in measured calm.

                     OSTERMANN
          The orders come from Hitler himself.

                     JACKSON
          So why are you telling us this?

                     OSTERMANN
          I have a plan that may save some of
          you.

They all stare at Ostermann with anger, suspicion -- and
threat, ten of them surrounding Ostermann alone.

                     JACKSON
          You're saying you're willing to
          oppose these orders?

Ostermann's stony stare is his answer.

                     BENTON
          Right.  This battlescarred Kraut's
          gonna help us.

                     OSTERMANN
          You act as if no German could have
          any shred of honor.  No wonder there
          is such a thing as war.

                     JACKSON
          So how many of you are there to help
          us?

                     OSTERMANN
          Right now?  There is myself.

Benton laughs in derision; Crane, through all this, watches
Ostermann in deep silence.

                     BENTON
          Just you?

                     OSTERMANN
          A leader is always alone, at first.

                     BENTON
          I say we take over this fuckin'
          camp, Sir!

                     OSTERMANN
          That may have been an option
          yesterday, when your only guards
          were sick old men from the
          Luftwaffe.  But now they've been
          reinforced by Waffen SS -- and there
          are more on the way.

Now the prisoners are silent; they know he's not bluffing.

                     OSTERMANN
          My plan is to send the main body of
          prisoners -- eight thousand of you
          -- on a march to the northeast, the
          last direction the SS would expect
          you to flee.  The rest of you -- the
          ones fit enough to fight, and those
          too sick to survive the other march
          -- will come with me on a dash
          toward the Americans lines, to draw
          the fire of the SS who will pursue
          us -- to the death.

                     JACKSON
          Can you give us a moment?... Men --

The command committee huddle around Jackson for a whispered
conference -- all but Crane, who, as the new arrival, stands
apart and exchanges a stare with Ostermann...

                     BOYLE
          It could be a ruse, to separate us
          from the others.

                     JACKSON
          If it is, he'll be out there with
          us.  And this Ostermann -- he is
          regular army, not SS.

                     BENTON
          I say we tell him we'll go along.
          We march outta here, he gives us
          weapons -- and then we're on our
          own!

Ostermann knows what they're saying, without hearing it.

                     OSTERMANN
          What you are proposing won't work.

                     BENTON
          Yeah?  Why not?

                     OSTERMANN
          First, because I will not give you
          weapons without your promise to obey
          me.  And second, because you are all
          flyers.  However brave you may have
          been sitting in your bombers, you
          have never seen the blood of an
          enemy.  You don't know how to fight
          the SS.  I do.

                     JACKSON
          And you're gonna sell all this to
          the guards?

                     OSTERMANN
          They've guarded you for years, and
          would rather keep doing it than die
          on the Russian front.

                     JACKSON
          Colonel Ostermann, I believe we have
          a deal.

Ostermann moves to the door, then turns back, toward Benton.

                     OSTERMANN
          One last point.  Don't ever talk of
          bombing cities in front of me or the
          guards.  And if you ever direct
          contempt or profanity at me again,
          then I will kill you.

Ostermann leaves behind a chill, colder than the wind that
comes through the door.  Jackson, still thoughtful, looks at
Crane.

                     JACKSON
          Crane, you came in with Ostermann.

                     CRANE
          He was there when the SS welcomed
          me.  I was pissed off.  I tried to
          make him kill me, with a remark
          about bombing Krauts.

                     BOYLE
          And he didn't kill you.

                     CRANE
          I don't know why -- but it wasn't
          because he didn't want to.

                     BENTON
          When we move outta here, I'll be in
          his shadow.  If anybody's gonna die,
          he'll die first.

INT.  THE PRISON CAMP - OSTERMANN'S ROOM - DAY

Ostermann is alone in his room, pacing, his face clouded.
There is a KNOCK.

                     OSTERMANN
          Come!

Kohlmeyer, Hans, Hermann, and a half-dozen of the camp non-
commissioned officers enter, and stand at attention.

                     OSTERMANN
          I have new orders from Berlin.
          Before I give them to you, I wish to
          speak with you about duty...

EXT.  BERLIN - NIGHT

The distinctive form of Reinhold Ostermann limps through the
night.  He carries a huge Bible, of the type placed on
pulpits.  The streets are nearly deserted; as Reinhold turns
a corner, two SS SENTRIES step from the darkness.

                     SS SENTRY 1
          Where are you going, during the
          blackout?

                     REINHOLD
          Someone at headquarters asked for
          me.

                     SS SENTRY 2
          It's that crippled priest, who
          cleans up after suicides.  Go on.

Reinhold limps on.  The moonlight shows a bead of sweat on
his face.

EXT.  GOVERNMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Two officers are standing in the moonlight of a courtyard of
the building.  One of them NIEHAUS, is one of the officers we
saw at the secret meeting in the church basement.  They are
smoking cigarettes and glancing at their watches; then
Niehaus sees Reinhold appear at the gate.  The guards there
search him -- but ignore the Bible.

Reinhold hobbles in, and sags weakly to a bench along one
wall.  Niehaus moves to him, and says loudly --

                     NIEHAUS
          I'm sorry, Father.  My schedule has
          changed, I can't see you tonight.

                     REINHOLD
          May I rest a moment, before I go?

                     NIEHAUS
               (to the guards)
          Let him out, when he is ready!

The guards nod and turn away.  At Reinhold's feet is a
briefcase.  When no one is looking, he opens his hollowed-out
Bible and slips the five pounds of explosive, and its timer-
detonator, into the briefcase.

Reinhold limps to the gate.  He looks back at Niehaus, who
gives him a nod, then picks up the briefcase and moves back
to chat with the other officers.

EXT.  GOVERNMENT BUILDING - NIGHT - TIME CUT

Reinhold is standing in the shadow on the street opposite the
building.  He sees a convoy of four cars -- Hitler and his
guards -- roar past and swing into the courtyard,
unchallenged by the guards.

Suddenly someone slips into the shadows beside Reinhold.  It
is Bonhoeffer; both men nearly jump out of their skins.

                     BONHOEFFER
          You shouldn't be here!

                     REINHOLD
          Nor you!

They check their watches.

Their watches show an hour passing.

                     BONHOEFFER
          We should've heard the blast by --

Then they hear it, the muffled CRUMP of the bomb going off
inside the building.

They wait in almost unbearable tension, then see Hitler stalk
out, brushing off the concern of his bodyguards, climb into
his Mercedes and roar away.

Reinhold and Bonhoeffer know it has gone wrong.  Without
speaking they hurry off in opposite directions; Reinhold with
a last glance over his shoulder, sees guards carrying out
Niehaus' dead body, torn by the blast.

INT.  CHURCH SANCTUARY - NIGHT

Reinhold moves out of his study and limps through to the
sanctuary.  It has been cleaned up, but the stained glass
window is now an open arch to the night sky.  Reinhold moves
to the altar and kneels.  A man steps from the shadows and
kneels beside him, as if to pray.  It is Bonhoeffer.

                     BONHOEFFER
          He put the bomb directly at Hitler's
          feet.  Twenty seconds before it
          blew, Hitler flew into a rage and
          began darting around, yelling at his
          staff.  Niehaus picked up the
          briefcase, apparently to run right
          at him with it, and it exploded
          before he could.  Hitler was
          scratched.

                     REINHOLD
          And the others?

                     BONHOEFFER
          They've arrested Canaris.  He may
          have been able to bite the cyanide
          before they interrogated him...
          Speak to no one, watch your phone
          calls... and pray.

Bonhoeffer rises and hurries out; Reinhold prays.

EXT.  PRISON CAMP - NIGHT

Cold, dark; searchlights cut the air, and, from Ostermann's
room, a light glows...

INT.  OSTERMANN'S ROOM - NIGHT

Ostermann has the prisoner census and camp diagrams laid out
on his desk; Faber stands at attention before him.

                     OSTERMANN
          You mapped the train junction as I
          ordered?

Faber snaps his heels together and hands over a diagram.

                     OSTERMANN
          I have spoken with POW leaders.
          They are willing to do what I say.
          I have also spoken with the guards.
          So here is what you will do.

He spreads Farber's diagram of the junction out on the desk.

                     OSTERMANN
          You have twenty SS already here with
          you.  You will take those men to the
          railhead two hours before dawn, and
          you will set up gun emplacements
          here, here, and here.  I have
          convinced Jackson and the others to
          concentrate all their leaders, and
          the fittest of the prisoners, into
          one group.  At dawn I will march
          that group to the junction, where
          you will ambush them at my signal.
          After that, the rest of the
          prisoners will go to their graves
          like sheep.

                     FARBER
          You have a talent for this.

                     OSTERMANN
          Get going.

                     FARBER
          Heil Hitler.

Ostermann looks back to his diagrams without returning the
salute, and Farber leaves.

                                                  CUT TO:

CLOSE - A TELEPHONE

as it softly RINGS.  We reveal we are in a bedroom; and as
Lise rises from the bed and moves to the phone, we see we
are --

INT.  PARSONAGE - REINHOLD'S ROOMS AT THE CHURCH - NIGHT

Lise answers the phone.

                     LISE
          Reverend Ostermann's Parsonage...

INTERCUT - OSTERMANN, IN THE OFFICE OF THE PRISON CAMP

                     OSTERMANN
          Lise.  It's Klaus.

                     LISE
          Klaus...

                     OSTERMANN
          I'm sorry to wake you, I...

                     LISE
          It's all right, I wasn't sleeping.
          I just lie in bed and...

An awkward pause hangs between them, two people who love each
other so deeply, yet find themselves divided by the depth of
their solitary grief over their son.  Then Klaus presses on.

                     OSTERMANN
          Lise, is Reinhold there?

                     LISE
          ... No, he... left early this
          morning, he said it was to visit a
          friend.  He hasn't come back yet.

                     OSTERMANN
          You must listen to me.  As soon as
          he returns, you must find a vehicle,
          and get out of Berlin.

                     LISE
          Out...?

                     OSTERMANN
          Move west, always west.  Get into
          the countryside.  If our soldiers
          ask you what you are doing, you tell
          them your husband is wounded and you
          must go to him.

                     LISE
          Are you wounded?!...

                     OSTERMANN
          No... Not yet.  But you must get to
          the American lines.  Both of you.
          Reinhold must know how to find a
          vehicle, but if not, you must find
          mules, a wagon, anything, but you
          must go.
               (beat)
          ... Lise?

                     LISE
          I'm here, I just -- I've never heard
          you sound this way.

                     OSTERMANN
          I love you, Lise.  Never forget
          that.  But don't let it stop you.

                     LISE
          Stop me?... Klaus, I don't
          understand.

                     OSTERMANN
          The time will come, I pray it will,
          when you can sleep.  When you can
          remember Johann and --

His voice breaks, and he squeezes his eyes shut tight, to try
to drive away the image in his own head of the last time he
held his son in his arms...

                     OSTERMANN
          ... and remember his joy, more than
          the pain.  You are still young.  You
          will always be beautiful.  And you
          may have another child, one you can
          love with your whole heart, without
          forgetting Johann.

Lise is crying at her end of the line, but she is doing it
silently, so as not to bring more grief to her husband.

                     LISE
          Someday... perhaps... we will do
          that, Klaus.

                     OSTERMANN
          You must do this, whether I am there
          or not.

                     LISE
          You're scaring me --

                     OSTERMANN
          Don't be scared.  Whatever happens
          to me, I will deserve it.  But you
          must go on.  Do it for me.  For you.
          And for Johann.  But I must believe
          that you will do it.

Now it hits her, unmistakably; he is telling her he will not
live through what is about to happen.  She can't speak; he
knows that.

                     OSTERMANN
          Tell Reinhold he must leave with
          you.  There is no choice now.  Tell
          him I remember his verse:  "They
          shall mount up with wings as eagles.
          They shall run and not be weary.
          They shall walk and not faint."
          Tell him...

                     LISE
          Klaus.

                     OSTERMANN
          I love you, Lise.

A TAP at Ostermann's door, and Hans enters, saluting.

                     HANS
          It is time.

                     OSTERMANN
               (on telephone)
          I must go.  I love you.

Ostermann hangs up.  He stares at the phone, still touching
it, as if it still connects him to her.  Then he looks up to
Hans.  Ostermann puts on his hat, takes his coat, his pack,
and leaves with Hans.

EXT.  PRISON CAMP - DAWN

The first gray light of morning dawns over the barbed wire
and gun towers of the prison camp.

A WHISTLE sounds; the prisoners begin pouring from their
barracks, assembling on the field.

It is cold in the spring night.  The men are weak, and
grumbling.  Many look as if they'll never make the journey.

THE ASSEMBLY, OUT ON THE PARADE GROUND

As the troops gather, the leaders of the suicide squad look
over the situation.  Benton's eyes are hard, shifty.

                     JACKSON
          Relax.

                     BOYLE
          Look, they're coming out of the
          guard towers.

And the guards are coming down.  Ostermann meets with
Jackson, and they look over the men, divided into two columns
-- one with the bulk of the camp's prisoners, the other a
much smaller group, containing the camp leaders.

                     OSTERMANN
          Kohlmeyer is on your side.  He knows
          what to do.

Ostermann signals, and Kohlmeyer blows a whistle.  The guards
open the gates, and the prisoners file out, in peaceful,
orderly fashion.  Jackson stands watching the dazed, hungry
prisoners move out of the gates.

                     JACKSON
          Four years I've been here.  And
          every moment I've dreamed of seeing
          those gates open, and these men
          march out.

                     OSTERMANN
          I thought you'd be going with the
          big column.

                     JACKSON
          They're the ones I'm pretty sure
          will make it.  We're the ones I'm
          pretty sure won't.

Ostermann looks up; Kohlmeyer and his staff salute Ostermann.
Ostermann salutes back, and they and most of the camp guards
move away with the larger column of prisoners.

Left in the camp are the smaller group:  two hundred men,
including the POW's who are weakest, along with the core of
prisoners who are strongest.  The sickest prisoners, known as
the Sad Sacks, have one truck in which to ride.

Ostermann moves among the leaders of the suicide squad --
Jackson, Benton, Boyle, Crane -- and hands out pistols.

                     OSTERMANN
          This is all we can spare now.  We'll
          have more weapons soon.

Ostermann moves back to the small corps -- a half dozen --
guards who have stayed with him.

                     BENTON
          He's got the guards bunched up.
          Now's our chance.

                     JACKSON
          Benton, nothing happens -- nothing
          -- unless I order it.

                     BENTON
          You trust these bastards, Sir?

                     JACKSON
          I just saw nine thousand men walk
          out of here safely.  If they make
          it, even if the rest of us die, then
          more of us will have survived than I
          had figured would.  Now that's the
          last I want to hear from you.

                     BENTON
          Yes Sir!

Benton's salute is snappy -- and angry.  Ostermann signals to
Hans -- Hans and Herman have remained with Ostermann -- and
Hans blows a whistle.  The column moves out.

INT.  SS HEADQUARTERS - DAY

Bleicher enters the office of another SS OFFICER, and the two
exchange Nazi salutes.

                     BLEICHER
          You have something I should hear?

                     OFFICER
          Yes, Bleicher -- from the telephone
          of our good friend, the Reverend
          Reinhold Ostermann.

He switches on a tape recorder on his desk.  They hear the
recording of Ostermann's voice, talking with Lise.

                     LISE'S VOICE
          Reverend Ostermann's Parsonage...

                     OSTERMANN'S VOICE
          Lise.  It's Klaus...

And Bleicher listens, with intense interest.

EXT.  STALAG LUFT THREE POW CAMP - DAY

An SS column, with Tiger tanks, halftrack weapons carriers,
and two truckloads of heavily armed infantrymen, rumbles
along the main road into the empty camp.  SS Major Kurtz, the
blonde, steel-eyed SS enforcer we saw shoot the General at
the losing battle -- stands up in the lead weapons carrier to
stare at the deserted facility:  empty barracks, deserted
guard tower, a camp of ghosts.

EXT.  THE RAILHEAD AT SPREMBERG - DAY

SS guards are controlling the flow of trains in and out of
the rail yard.  Seeing the column of prisoners coming, they
nudge each other.  And now we see Farber and four others,
waiting in ambush in one of the train cars, and another group
of SS with machine guns waiting in the station house, and a
third group manning a machine gun hidden in the back of a
truck.  Farber mutters to his men...

                     FARBER
          Wait for my signal... and remember
          that Ostermann is mine.

Farber quietly cocks his own machine pistol.

Ostermann is walking at the head of the column, and close by
him are Crane, Jackson, Boyle and Benton.  The Americans are
looking everywhere, and they see the SS waiting, but at first
they don't see the ambush.  Farber steps out and moves up to
Ostermann.

                     FARBER
          Everything is ready.

                     OSTERMANN
          Good.

Farber turns to give a signal to one of the SS men standing
in the open; it is then that the American leaders spot the
hidden Germans.  Benton is fingering the gun tucked beneath
his shirt and is about to shoot Ostermann -- when suddenly
Ostermann pulls out his pistol and shoots Farber.

Then Ostermann spins and hurls a grenade into the train car;
it explodes, blasting the SS men out of their hiding place
there.

The prisoners all hit the ground.

A SHARP, SUDDEN BATTLE IN THE TRAIN YARD

The SS men in the station building and in the truck are
caught completely by surprise; but in a moment they have
begun to fire -- and their first target is Ostermann.
Bullets from their large-caliber machine guns chew up the
wooden wall of the train car behind Ostermann.  He does not
flinch from the fire; he sprays the truck with a stream of
bullets from his machine pistol, killing two of the four men
there.

The SS gunners are fixated on him, and do not see that Hans
and three more guards have crept up behind them; Hans and the
others toss grenades in through the back windows of the
station building.  Those grenades EXPLODE, killing everyone
in the station building and further rocking those in the
truck.

Crane and some of the others are lying close to the truck,
where they have positioned themselves.  They try to urge
their limbs forward, but their arms and legs just won't obey;
the debris of the explosions, and the crash of gunfire so
close and so loud, has them frozen.

                     OSTERMANN
          Take them!  Take them!

Crane and the others with weapons are still frozen.

Suddenly Ostermann charges forward alone against the gunners
in the truck, zigzagging to dodge their bullets.  He shoots
down the one firing the machine gun, and then his own machine
pistol jams.  The second gunner raises a rifle to finish
Ostermann -- and in a flash Ostermann throws his dagger into
the man's throat.

Suddenly all is silent.

In that silence, Ostermann looks down at the dead men in the
SS uniforms -- his fellow Germans.  He looks for a long
moment, then reaches down and pulls his dagger from the dead
soldier.  Crane rises, and stares at Ostermann.

                     OSTERMANN
          Do you intend to shoot me?

Crane, still stunned, realizes he is standing there pointing
his gun at Ostermann; he lowers the weapon.  Ostermann looks
around at all the Americans; none of them fired a shot.

                     OSTERMANN
               (to guards)
          Strip the uniform from the SS.
               (to Jackson)
          I suggest you get your men onto the
          train.

                     JACKSON
          Everybody onto the train!

The prisoners start moving, gawking down at the bodies.  The
fitter prisoners help the weaker ones onto the train.

INT.  POW TRAIN CAR - DAY

Prisoners are jammed into every square inch of every car; it
is an old passenger train.  Huddled at the rear end of one
car are the members of the POW Command Committee, badly
shaken.  As the train pulls from the station, the Chaplain
looks out the window at the dead bodies left in their wake
and crosses himself.

                     JACKSON
          He's fighting the SS!  To save us!

                     BENTON
          Why?  That's what I want to know.

                     JACKSON
          He's a man of honor.

                     BENTON
          I don't believe what I'm hearing!
          One Nazi ambushes some other Nazis,
          and now he's the Second Coming?
          I'll tell you what I think.  He and
          his pals don't want to go to the
          Russian front.  That's all they're
          doing, looking out for themselves.
          First chance they get, they're gonna
          bug out.  I say we throw 'em off the
          train right now.

The door bangs open and Ostermann strides in.

                     OSTERMANN
          I knew you would be little help at
          first, but for you to have any
          chance at all of survival, you will
          have to do better next time.

                     BENTON
          Fuck you!

                     JACKSON
          Shut up, Benton!

                     BENTON
          He's calling us cowards.

                     CRANE
          He's saying we didn't help -- and we
          didn't.

                     OSTERMANN
          It is hard to kill, face to face --
          especially for men trained in the
          air and not on the ground.  Now that
          we have killed SS, their pursuit
          will be relentless.  And I cannot
          help you, if you do not help
          yourselves.

Ostermann strides out, moving toward the front of the train.

                     BENTON
          Bastard.

                     BOYLE
          He's right, Benton.  We all froze.

                     JACKSON
          We're forty miles inside German
          lines, with two hundred men who can
          hardly walk, and the SS out for
          blood.  I hope he has a plan.

Crane is looking out the window, and as the train rounds a
corner he sees Ostermann moving across the top of the train,
toward the engine.

                     CRANE
          He does.  He's just not telling us.

EXT.  GERMANY - DAY

The train rolls through the German countryside.  Beneath the
rolling mists, it is a beautiful landscape.

INT.  POW TRAIN - ENGINE - DAY

Ostermann is in the engine room, with Hans and Hermann.

                     OSTERMANN
          Time for phase two.

Ostermann hits the brakes.

EXT.  TRAIN STATION - SPREMBERG - DAY

The SS column, moving quickly, rumbles into the station and
stops.  Kurtz looks out over the carnage of dead SS men.

                     KURTZ
          Get me another train.  Now!  And let
          me see a map.

An aide shows him a map; he spots a gorge.

INT.  SS HEADQUARTERS - BERLIN - NIGHT

Bleicher receives a message; as he reads it, his face pales,
and he shakes his head.

                     BLEICHER
          I should have known.  I suppose I
          did know.
               (to his aide)
          Give Kurtz priority -- a train, and
          whatever else he needs.  And get my
          car...

EXT.  TRAIN TRACKS - DAY

Kurtz's train -- a fast, sleek diesel -- speeds up a hill.
Kurtz is on its top, peering ahead with field glasses.

                     KURTZ
          Have you radioed Bremerhoffen?

                     SS AIDE
          Jawohl.  They are ready!

EXT.  A GORGE - A BOMBED-OUT RAILROAD BRIDGE - DAY

The gorge is impassable -- and at its near side, a whole
corps of SS infantry is entrenched, awaiting the prisoner'
train.

EXT.  THE TRACKS - DAY

The prisoner train speeds along.  It rounds a corner in sight
of the gorge.  The SS troops at the barricades wave warning
flags, but the train barrels ahead.  The SS troops dive for
cover and unleash a storm of gunfire into the train.  Still
it doesn't stop; it reaches the barricades, crashes through,
derails on the broken tracks, and plunges into the gorge.
The SS troops look down; everyone in the train must be dead,
nobody could survive that fall.

They scurry down the hill and find the train completely
abandoned; no one was on it.

                     SS RADIO MAN
          Colonel Kurtz!

INTERCUT KURTZ AS NECESSARY

He listens to the report.

                     KURTZ
          Get observation planes in the air!

EXT.  THE ROAD TO HALBAU - DAY

Ostermann stands in the shelter of a grove of tree and
watches as the prisoners file by.  Most of the men are weak
and can barely move; the Sad Sacks, who rode in the truck on
the way out of the camp, are now being carried by the
stronger prisoners.  Jackson moves up to Ostermann.

                     JACKSON
          We've had four more men collapse.
          If we don't find shelter soon, half
          these men will die from exposure.

                     OSTERMANN
          We're three kilometers from Halbau,
          a farming village.  They will have
          food, and shelter too.

They hear the sound of a plane engine, coming through the
clouds.  Ostermann is instantly alert.

ALONG THE LINE OF PRISONERS, the men react.

                     BOYLE
          Take cover!

The POW's scramble for the sides of the road.  But Ostermann
is listening to the plane's engine sounds.

                     OSTERMANN
          It isn't a German fighter.

                     JACKSON
          Scout plane?

IN THE COCKPIT OF THE PLANE, the pilot -- an American -- is
scanning the ground below, looking for targets.

ON THE GROUND, Crane looks skyward as he hears the plane's
engine revving faster.

                     CRANE
          That's not a Kraut, it's a Mustang!

                     BOYLE
          Hey!  Down here!!

Boyle starts to wave; the other POW's in the column see the
American plane and start to wave and cheer.

The plane noses into an accelerating dive... closer,
closer... and then its wing guns erupt.  The bullets chew
paths into the ground and through the ranks of men scattered
on either side of the road.

Panic throughout the line; the Mustang loops around for
another run.

                     CRANE
          Take cover, he's coming around
          again!

One of the prisoners, Plessky, pulls out a makeshift American
flag he has carried within his shirt, a hodgepodge banner he
has stitched from rags; he begins waving it.

The plane comes in for a second pass, and Plessky keeps
waving his flag.  The pilot spots the flag and veers off.

THE AFTERMATH OF THE AIR ATTACK

Wounded men are lying everywhere.  Ostermann and the others
climb out of the ditches, and look at the carnage.

Doc runs up and reports to Jackson and Ostermann.

                     DOC
          We've got two dead, and five more
          hit so badly they can't walk.

                     JACKSON
          We have to carry them.

                     DOC
          We can't.  We're already carrying
          the Sad Sacks.  We have to leave the
          wounded behind.

                     OSTERMANN
          If you do that, they will be killed.

                     JACKSON
          Maybe in the village we can find a
          place for them.

                     BURGERMEISTER (V.O.)
          Nein!  Nein!

Anticipating the cut to --

EXT.  HALBAU - DAY

The BURGERMEISTER of Halbau is a chubby man.  As mayor, he's
the one the villagers listen to -- and he expects Ostermann
to listen to him too, as he gestures emphatically and
repeats...

                     BURGERMEISTER
          Nein!  Gehen sie aus!

Ostermann stands in the village square facing the
Burgermeister.  Jackson and Crane stand at a respectful
distance, letting them argue.  The village is picturesque,
storybook houses and shops along a winding stream, with a
church at one end.

                     JACKSON
          I wish I knew what they were saying.

                     CRANE
          The Burgermeister just said he'd
          rather have the plague here than
          have POW's.

                     JACKSON
          You speak Kraut?

                     CRANE
          My mother and grandparents were
          German.  They called it Pennsylvania
          Dutch after World War One, but they
          were Krauts.

Now Ostermann mutters something; the Burgermeister reddens,
then bows sharply, and walks away.  Ostermann gestures to
Hans and Hermann, then moves back to the Americans.

                     OSTERMANN
          He says we can rest in the church.

                     JACKSON
          How did you convince him?

                     OSTERMANN
          I said I couldn't be responsible for
          what two hundred Americans might do
          to his village if I turned them
          loose.

Hans, Hermann and the other guards start guiding the POW's
into the church.

                     JACKSON
          We've got to leave some men behind.

                     OSTERMANN
          If the SS finds them --

                     JACKSON
          Maybe they won't.  It's either leave
          them or they die on the road.

Another plane buzzes overhead; Plessky begins waving his
flag.  But this time the plane is a German observation plane
-- and its spotter can't mistake the prisoners.

Ostermann stands beside the church, watching the plane turn
and fly north.

                     OSTERMANN
          We must go.

                     JACKSON
          But the men haven't rested --

                     OSTERMANN
          Now!  Or no one lives.
               (to Hans)
          Geiben sie mir der Burgermeister!

INT.  VILLAGE CHURCH - DAY

The exhausted prisoners are starting to riot against the
German guards who are trying to roust them up.

                     PRISONER
          Whatta ya mean?  We're here, we're
          gonna rest!

Jackson arrives, and Doc and the Chaplin rush to him.

                     DOC
          Colonel, these guys are near dead
          already.  We've got four still
          bleeding from the strafing, and two
          more that'll die even if we carry
          'em.

But Jackson has no choice; at the same time...

OUTSIDE THE CHURCH

Crane, a quiet loner among the prisoners, has been keeping an
eye on Ostermann.  He sees Hans bring up the Burgermeister.
Ostermann says something to the fat man in a low voice, then
punches him in the face.  The Burgermeister seems grateful,
as Ostermann picks him up.

                     BURGERMEISTER
          Danke, Herr Oberst.

Hans helps the Burgermeister out, toward home, as Ostermann
looks around at the surprised Americans.

                     OSTERMANN
          Maybe the bruise I just gave him
          will save him.  Let us get moving.

EXT.  HALBAU - DAY

The POW's straggle out again, moving down the road.

INT.  THE CHURCH - DAY

Doc and the Chaplin make sure the four men they are leaving
behind are as comfortable as they can make them.

                     CHAPLIN
          You guys'll be okay.  God will watch
          over you.

They leave and head out to join the column.

EXT.  ROAD - DAY

The column of Prisoners straggles along, Ostermann tireless
as he picks up faltering prisoners and presses other
exhausted men into helping them.

EXT.  COUNTRYSIDE - NIGHTFALL

They have arrived at a farm; the POW's stand in a ragged
column outside a two story farmhouse, from whose upper
windows frightened children peer out at the frighteningly
haggard Americans.  Ostermann emerges from the farmhouse and
marches up to Jackson.

                     OSTERMANN
          The family that owns the farm will
          provide the barn, one cow for us to
          cook, water for soup, cloth for
          bandages.  In exchange, no one
          enters their house, agreed?  And I
          need the Suicide Squad, now.

Ostermann strides toward the barn.

INT.  BARN - NIGHT

Ostermann is in the hay loft with Hans and Hermann as
Jackson, Crane, Boyle and Benton climb up to join them.

                     JACKSON
          We've got to get more food.  And
          medicine.  And --

                     OSTERMANN
          We are going to need more weapons.

                     JACKSON
          We got more than we can use from the
          SS at the train junction.

                     OSTERMANN
          Small arms.  We need something
          heavier.

                     BOYLE
          Where do you propose to get them?

                     OSTERMANN
          From the men who are following us.
          In the morning they will send out
          more scout planes.  Tonight, since
          they don't know where we are, they
          will halt their column in Halbau,
          where it is warm and comfortable.
          They should have what we need.

                     CRANE
          What do we need?

                     OSTERMANN
          Anti-tank weapons.

                     JACKSON
          For what?

                     OSTERMANN
          For their Tigers.

                     BOYLE
          Tigers?  Tiger tanks?  Nobody said
          anything about Tiger tanks.

                     OSTERMANN
          Without the air attack we might have
          outrun them.  Now we will have to
          outfight them.  Put on these.

He tosses them the uniforms he took from the dead SS men at
the train station.

EXT.  HALBAU VILLAGE - NIGHT

We see the picturesque German village, its beauty marred by
the SS weapons carrier, two cars, and two troop transports
parked along the main square.

Spring snow is falling; except for the military vehicles the
village looks picturesque and peaceful.

Near the main square is a tavern; light spills from it, out
onto the street, as two SS troopers lead the Burgermeister
into the tavern.

INT.  TAVERN - NIGHT

The troopers lead the Burgermeister, his eye bruised from
where Ostermann hit him, to a table where SS Major Kurtz is
sitting, eating a hot dinner and drinking beer.  Kurtz
motions, and his men guide the Burgermeister into a chair at
the table.  Kurtz appraises the man's bruise.

                     SS MAJOR KURTZ
          So, Herr Burgermeister, you have
          been a good German, yes?

The Burgermeister is nervous.

EXT.  THE VILLAGE - NIGHT

Ostermann, Crane, Benton, Boyle and two other Americans have
ridden to the edge of the village in a farm truck, driven by
Hans, with Herman in the front seat with him.  The Americans
wear SS uniforms -- with holes where Ostermann shot the
troopers -- right in the heart.  Crane fingers the punctures
in his uniforms, and glances at Ostermann.

                     OSTERMANN
          Don't worry about the old holes --
          just worry about any new ones.

Hans pulls off the road, tucking the truck into the trees.

EXT.  VILLAGE - VARIOUS SHOTS - NIGHT

Ostermann leads them along the river bank, to a point where
they can see the main road of the village.  They see several
SS vehicles -- a halftrack, a troop carrier, a truck --
parked unguarded in a clearing near the tavern.

                     BENTON
          Looks like the SS has taken over the
          tavern.

                     OSTERMANN
          You know your assignments.

Ostermann moves off quickly.  The Americans mumble.

                     BENTON
          He's gettin' on my nerves.

                     BOYLE
          You're still alive, aren't you?

Benton follows Ostermann along the stream, toward the other
vehicles parked up the street.

Hans, Hermann and Boyle walk casually into the village, as if
they owned it; they stop in front of the tavern, and Boyle
ducks into the alley.

Crane leads the last two men -- Morales and Johnson -- to the
German vehicles.  Crane stands guard as the two others begin
sabotaging the vehicles.  Everything is strangely quiet.

OSTERMANN, BENTON, AND THE OTHERS

move deeper into the village; parked in the village square
are two Tiger tanks.

                     OSTERMANN
          They are lazy, they aren't guarding
          the panzers.  With explosives we can
          take them out.

Near the square are two large houses, through whose windows
they can see SS troopers inside.

                     OSTERMANN
          Stay here.  I want a closer count.

He moves up through the shadows toward the house.  Benton and
the other American -- SLOAN -- stand waiting for him.  And
then they turn and see, on the flagpole in the center of the
town square...

FOUR HANGED AMERICANS

They are the wounded men the column left behind, in the
church.

Benton and Sloan stand frozen, looking at the blotched white
and purple faces of the hanged men.

OSTERMANN

finishes his count and slips away from the house, back to the
square.  He looks around but the Americans are gone; then
Ostermann also spots the hanged Americans.

INSIDE THE TAVERN

Kurtz is eating, and enjoying tormenting the Burgermeister.

                     KURTZ
          You have shown us much hospitality.
          Were you as kind to our enemies as
          well?... Why are you sweating, Herr
          Burgermeister?

OUTSIDE

Crane watches the street; Morales, excited, moves up.

                     MORALES
          The halftrack is full of weapons --
          bazookas, grenades, everything!

                     CRANE
          Find a way to get that one running,
          and disable the rest.

Morales moves back to the vehicles.  He starts hotwiring the
halftrack, as Johnson hurries among the other vehicles,
pouring water into the fuel tanks of the vehicles, and are
ripping out ignition wires.

An SS trooper totters out of the tavern; he's drunk, and
moving toward the vehicles.  Hans stops him... IN GERMAN,
with SUBTITLES...

                     HANS
          Not that way, it's dangerous.

                     SS TROOPER
          Who're you?

                     HANS
          Road maintenance.

                     SS TROOPER
          I've got to piss.

                     HANS
          Use the alley.

The trooper moves around to the alley.  For a moment there is
silence; then Crane hears a stab and a death groan.  Just
then Crane is startled by SS TROOPER 2 moving up behind him,
slapping him on the back.

                     TROOPER 2
               (in German)
          Got a match?

Crane is nervous; he can't seem to understand what the
trooper is saying; the trooper repeats himself impatiently.
Crane fumbles around in his pockets, then punches the
trooper, dropping him to the road.  Crane stands over him,
breathing heavily in his nerves; then he's more shocked as
Benton hurries up, leans down and cuts the trooper's throat.

INSIDE THE TAVERN

Kurtz is still tormenting the Burgermeister.

                     KURTZ
          I don't know whether to leave your
          village, or burn it.  I noticed you
          have three daughters.  Maybe I can
          sooth myself with them.

The SS Major laughs.  The Burgermeister, deeply offended,
stands and walks toward the door.

                     KURTZ
          Stop!

The Burgermeister doesn't stop.  Kurtz fires his Luger into
the ceiling.  Inside, everyone freezes.

OUTSIDE

The unexpected shot makes the Suicide Squad crouch and duck,
wild eyed.

INSIDE

The Burgermeister has nearly had a heart attack, and has
frozen.  Finding himself unhurt, he starts again toward the
door, but Kurtz moves up and kicks him from behind, sending
him out into the street.  Laughing riotously, Kurtz moves
outside to continue his fun, his Luger in his hand --

OUTSIDE

Kurtz stops; he sees the men outside, pointing their machine
pistols at him.  Then Benton fires a stream of bullets into
Kurtz's chest.

Hell breaks loose; more SS men run for the door, and Benton
and Crane shoot them too.

OSTERMANN, RUNNING DOWN THE STREET

can't stop what's happening.

                     OSTERMANN
          No.  No!!

CRANE AND BENTON

Benton snaps; he charges through the doors of the tavern...

INT.  THE TAVERN

Benton fires at everything that moves -- SS troopers, the
bartender, women.  People are screaming; he shoots until his
ammo clip is empty.

Crane is stunned by what he sees; Ostermann arrives as Crane
plunges through the door and drags Benton out by the neck;
the civilians are panicking, running out through the back
door of the Tavern.

Far up the street, the SS troopers from the houses are
pouring out into the street.

Ostermann jabs his pistol into Benton's throat, wanting to
pull the trigger.

                     BENTON
          Motherfuckers!  They butchered them!
          They butchered them!

Ostermann is trying to shake Benton back to his senses, but
Benton is wild.

                     BENTON
          Those were my friends!  My friends!

                     OSTERMANN
          And you killed my son with your
          bombs!  My son and my parents!  Now
          do you want to live, or do you want
          to die?!

Benton is jolted -- and so is Crane.  SS troops running
toward them; Ostermann slings Benton toward Crane and fires a
stream of bullets down the street, into the SS troopers.

Crane drags Benton to the halftrack, which Morales has
running.  Boyle, Hans, Hermann and everyone except Ostermann
pile into the back of the halftrack.  Hermann takes a bullet
in the back as he's climbing in.

                     OSTERMANN
          Go!  Go!

Morales pops the clutch and the big vehicle lurches forward.
Ostermann reloads with another clip and stands his ground in
the middle of the road, pinning down the SS.

                     CRANE
          Come on!

Ostermann fires another clip, then runs and jumps into the
rear of the halftrack.

Back up the road, the SS troopers are piling into their
trucks.  The trucks lurch after the raiders.

One of the Tiger tanks fires up; its turret turns and it
fires a round at the escaping halftrack.

A tree beside the road shatters with the blast, and the
halftrack keeps rolling.  But the trucks are gaining.

                     OSTERMANN
          Give me the panzerfaust!

                     BOYLE
          What?

                     OSTERMANN
          The bazooka!

He grabs the weapon and hands it to Ostermann.  Ostermann
puts the German bazooka on his shoulder, takes aim, and
fires.  The lead SS truck explodes and crashes into the
bridge, blocking it.

The halftrack rumbles away, into the night.

INT.  HALFTRACK - NIGHT

Benton is huddled in one corner; Hermann has died in the
other.  Ostermann and Crane sit across from each other in the
rear of the halftrack.  Ostermann looks across at him, and
Crane looks away in shame.

Ostermann stands, and starts to jump off.

                     CRANE
          Where are you going?

                     OSTERMANN
          The farm truck.  If the SS discover
          it, they might use it to find out
          where we have stayed, and they will
          kill the family.

Ostermann jumps out.  He hits, rolls, and scrambles into --

EXT.  THE FOREST - NIGHT

Ostermann is getting his bearings when he hears someone move
up behind him; he spins, ready to kill; it is Crane.

                     CRANE
          If we don't keep you alive, nobody
          makes it out of here.

Ostermann leads him deeper into the woods.

EXT.  FOREST - NEAR VILLAGE - NIGHT

The village is all activity; SS officers are blowing
whistles, rousing men; the Tiger tanks are rumbling.

Ostermann and Crane reach the truck, tucked among the trees.
They see the Tiger tanks moving out of the village, blasting
the burning wreckage of the exploded truck out of the way.

                     CRANE
          Holy shit.

                     OSTERMANN
          Nothing stands up to a Tiger.

They jump into the truck.

EXT.  FARM - NIGHT

Jackson, Boyle, Benton and a few others are in heated
discussion, as Ostermann and Crane pull up in the truck.
Jackson moves quickly to Ostermann.

                     JACKSON
          I've heard what Benton did.  All I
          can say is how sorry --

                     OSTERMANN
          No time for that.  Get the men ready
          to move.

                     JACKSON
          Where?

                     OSTERMANN
          Get them ready!  There are Tigers
          coming!

Everyone starts scrambling.

                     BOYLE
          What about Hermann?

                     OSTERMANN
          Bury him.  Quickly -- but deep.

Boyle motions to some men to lift Hermann's body, and he
looks around to the barn, where there is a shovel.

EXT.  FARM - DAWN

The sun is coming up over the horizon as the column of men
trudge away from the farm.

Boyle moves up from the woods, returns the shovel to the
barn, and finds Crane, handing him some papers.

                     BOYLE
          You might take a look at these.
          Hermann had them; Ostermann had
          ordered him to take the papers off
          any SS we killed.  There are some
          maps, other papers.  All in German.

Crane takes the papers and the column moves out.

AT THE HEAD OF THE COLUMN

Ostermann is leading the men.  Jackson moves up to him.

                     JACKSON
          I need to know where we're going.

                     OSTERMANN
          I know where we're going.  You need
          to control your men.

                     JACKSON
          I said I was sorry about what Benton
          did.  But it was because --

                     OSTERMANN
          I know why he did it.  But people
          who didn't need to die are dead now
          because he lost control.

                     JACKSON
          It's a war.

                     OSTERMANN
          You don't need to tell me what
          happens in war.  We're going to salt
          mines.  Four kilometers from here.

                     JACKSON
          Salt mines.

                     OSTERMANN
          Berlin to the north, Russians to the
          east, German defenses both south and
          west.  But the mines run through the
          mountains, and at the other end of
          the mines... are the American lines.

Ostermann keeps marching, pressing the pace forward; Jackson
stops and watches him go, in grudging admiration of
Ostermann's leadership and planning.

EXT.  SS COLUMN - DAY

The trucks and Tiger tanks roll past the farm; the trail the
prisoners have taken is easy to follow, littered with tatters
of blankets, bandages.

EXT.  RUGGED TERRAIN - DAY

The prisoners struggle down a wooded mountainside.  Jackson
and Crane help with the sick and wounded, as they talk.

                     JACKSON
          That mine, it's gotta be worked with
          slave labor.  And that means --

                     CRANE
          SS guards.

EXT.  MINE ENTRANCES - DAY

The entrance to the mine is a broad white hole at the base of
a mountain.  A few SS guards patrol around it, while tattered
men struggle to push mine cars.

Jackson, Boyle, Benton and Crane peer out from the cover of
rocks and trees on the main approach to the mouth of the
mine.  There is a large gap of open ground between them and
the mine entrance.  Big problem.

                     BOYLE
          With one machine gun in the mouth of
          that mine, they could kill us all,
          and we couldn't scratch them.

                     JACKSON
          Benton?

                     BENTON
          With the handful of guys we can
          count on to fight.  We'll never
          takes this place.  It's a slaughter.

Ostermann moves up behind them, without slowing he walks
straight and tall toward the mouth of the mine.

                     CRANE
          What the fuck is he --

Ostermann marches up to the sergeant of the guard and snaps
out orders, as if the SS soldiers could not possibly think to
disobeying him.

                     OSTERMANN
          Give me your weapons.  Now.  You too
          -- all of you!  Put down your
          weapons!  The war is over.

The guards look at him.  They hesitate.  The SS sergeant
stares at something over Ostermann's shoulder, then looks
back at Ostermann.

Ostermann remains cool.  The Americans watching all this are
sure he's going to be shot at any second.  But then,
amazingly, the SS guards lower their weapons; the Sergeant
hands his machine pistol to Ostermann.

The Americans hurry out of their hiding place and move to the
mouth of the cave.  They still can't understand why the SS
surrendered so easily.  And then they see, displayed on the
wall of the guard shack beside the mine entrance --

A PROPAGANDA POSTER

of the ideal German soldier.  It is a picture of Ostermann,
in his Black Eagle assault uniform, with the caption:  Alles
fur Deutschland.  Boyle grins.

                     BOYLE
          The poster.  Maybe we should show
          this to the guys chasing us.

                     OSTERMANN
          It won't work with them.  They're
          the ones who put me on it.

Slave miners, looking like human moles, drift from the mine
entrance, and stare.

                     OSTERMANN
          Russians.  They're afraid we've come
          to kill them.  You get the men into
          the mine, I'll see to the escape
          route.

He moves to the miners and speaks to them in Russian.

                     OSTERMANN
               (subtitled)
          You will not be harmed.  I need to
          see the end of the tunnel.

EXT.  MOUTH OF THE MINES - DAY

The long column of prisoners is straggling into the mines.
Jackson, Crane, Benton and Boyle are there.

                     JACKSON
          Boyle, we need to set up our first
          line of defense.

Boyle salutes and hurries off.  Jackson looks at Benton, who
has been ashamed of himself since Halbau.

                     JACKSON
          Why don't you help him, Benton.

                     BENTON
          Yes Sir.

Grateful for a chance to redeem himself, he hurries to join
Boyle.

                     JACKSON
          Let's see how Ostermann is doing
          with that escape route.

INT.  MINE - VARIOUS TUNNELS

Exhausted prisoners lie against the white walls of the mines,
going nowhere, as Crane and Jackson move down the central
tunnel.  They find one of the German guards.

                     CRANE
          Ostermann?

The guard points down a long tunnel.  Crane and Jackson head
down it, moving through pools of light from oil lamps.  They
reach

A BLOCKED AREA OF TUNNEL

They find Ostermann, with the Russian miners, all staring at
a huge plug of rubble blocking the tunnel.

                     OSTERMANN
          When the American lines advanced,
          the guards dynamited the passage
          that leads to them.

                     JACKSON
          Can they dig through?

                     OSTERMANN
          They are miners.  And the prisoners
          can help.

Ostermann snaps orders in Russian to the miners, organizing
the digging effort.

                     JACKSON
          If we dig, who holds off the SS?

Boyle runs up, breathless.

                     BOYLE
          They're here.

AT THE MOUTH OF THE MINE

The last of the prisoners have barely made it to the mine,
stumbling in past the defensive line of guards and armed
prisoners guarding the entrance.  Ostermann, Crane and
Jackson run up just in time to see the SS troops forming up
to charge.

                     OSTERMANN
          Jackson, you direct the defense.
          Pressure them all you can, but fall
          back, let them come.  I'll do the
          rest.
               (to Crane)
          I need you, and four more men.

Crane grabs men and follows Ostermann.

THE FIRST SS ATTACK AT THE MINE

The SS, like the blitzekriegers, swarm the mine entrance,
behind an attacking Tiger tank.

Boyle and Benton lead the defense from the mine entrance,
raking machine gun fire across the attacking infantrymen.
But the panzerfausts explode harmlessly against the front of
the attacking tank.  Its turret swings toward them.

                     BOYLE
          Get back!  Get back!

Its main gun blasts into the entrance, blasting defenders
into the air the defenders who were too slow to run, and
sending the survivors retreating, deeper into the mine.

The SS attackers swarm in.

In the tunnel --

                     JACKSON
          Set up a new line!

The POW's try to form new defensive positions deeper in the
mine; but the SS attack is relentless.

                     BENTON
          We can't hold 'em!

HIGHER UP ON THE MOUNTAIN

Ostermann, Crane, and several others emerge from a small
service shaft several hundred yards from the main entrance.
Ostermann never breaks stride, scrambling to lead Crane and
the others down the side of the mountain.

AT THE SS COMMAND POST

The SS officers watch as the main entrance grows quiet,
except for the rattle of fire deep within the mine.

Suddenly Ostermann and his men counter-attack, with complete
surprise; Ostermann sprays the SS command post with fire from
his own pistol, covering as he and his men run into the mine
entrance behind the SS attackers.

                     SS COMMANDER
          He's counter-attacking!  From
          behind!

INSIDE THE MINES

Ostermann charges through the mines, hitting the SS from
behind, cutting them down quickly.

Ostermann reaches the Tiger tank.  It has just fired another
blast from its cannon; but Ostermann attaches a charge to its
rear, and dives for cover.

The POW commandos see the tank rolling toward them; they are
defenseless... then the tank EXPLODES with a massive
detonation.

The POW's are blown to the ground.  Jackson and the others
are showered with the fallout from the exploding tank, and
the blast echo bounces through the mine.  They think the
whole mine will cave in... but it doesn't.  When they lift
their heads, Ostermann is standing above them.

                     OSTERMANN
          Get the entrance blocked off again.

AT THE MOUTH OF THE MINE - POV THE ATTACKERS

There is a strange noise from within the mine, and a piece of
mining equipment -- a tractor used to pull mine cars --
rumbles up into the main mine entrance, pulling a stream of
ore cars.  The SS fire at the the driver -- one of the POW's
-- but he jumps off and escapes back into the mine.

Ostermann directs the erection of the barricade:  the
Americans chock the wheels of the ore cars.

                     CRANE
          Will this stop Tigers?

                     OSTERMANN
          It will slow them down.  Let's see
          how the diggers are coming.

INT.  MINES - NIGHT

At the blockage, the miners and the stronger prisoners are
working like an army of ants to clear a passage.  Ostermann
looks them over; it's going slowly.

MONTAGE - OSTERMANN SETTING THE DEFENSES

Ostermann moves among the men along the various corridors,
setting defensive positions.  He shows flyers, who have never
been trained in the use of small arms, the proper way to hold
the German rifles and anti-tank weapons the guards have
handed out.

The POW's are scrawny men, weakened by years of captivity;
they seem to draw encouragement from Ostermann's steady
strength.  He moves among them as he once did among his own
men; at one of the makeshift gun emplacements, where the Sad
Sacks have piled together rocks to make a miniature fort,
Ostermann finds a man strapping on a German dagger he took
from one of the dead SS; Ostermann pulls the blade from its
scabbard, and looks at the inscription on the steel.

                     OSTERMANN
          "Alles fur Deutschland."
          Everything for Germany...

He rubs his finger over a gunbarrel to lubricate the blade
with cosmoline.  He hands it back to the POW, and looks
around at the pale American faces, weak with hunger, fatigue
and fear, looking back at him.

                     OSTERMANN
          Don't worry.  When the time comes,
          you'll do it.  For yourselves.

Ostermann moves on...

AT THE BLOCKAGE AT THE REAR OF THE MINE, Jackson oversees the
struggle to get the blockage of rubble clear, for the escape
route...

AT THE MOST FORWARD POSITION, Ostermann and Crane stand
together, staring silently at the mouth of the mine, their
faces lit in the orange light of the mine lanterns.  Crane
glances back at the POW's Ostermann just visited, waiting for
the SS onslaught.

                     CRANE
          They've been POW's for years, most
          of 'em.  They're hungry and cold.
          They've never trained with these
          weapons.  And like you said, most of
          'em have never seen blood.

                     OSTERMANN
          Don't underestimate them.

                     CRANE
          I don't underestimate a regiment of
          SS fanatics.  We can't hold 'em
          back, and you know it.  You've had
          this whole thing pretty well figured
          out, all along.

                     OSTERMANN
          I suppose it's because I am too
          much like those men who pursue us.

                     CRANE
          No.  You're who they pretend to be.

Crane fishes some papers out of his pocket.

                     CRANE
          I was supposed to give you these.
          Hermann took 'em off the SS officers
          in the village.

Ostermann glances through the documents.

                     OSTERMANN
          Passes... escape routes through the
          lines... and a map.  "The Final
          Defense of Berlin."  What madness.
          Look there -- it shows the Black
          Eagles defending the War Ministry.
          That's my old regiment, only there's
          nobody left in it.  Hitler wants
          everybody dead.  Now they're even
          pretending the dead are still alive,
          so they can die again for his
          delusions.  You keep them -- as a
          reminder.

He gives the documents back to Crane.

                     CRANE
          I've gotta ask you something.  The
          bomb.  The one that killed... your
          son.  When was it dropped?
          Because... it might'a been one of
          mine.

                     OSTERMANN
          It doesn't matter now.

                     CRANE
          It matters.

                     OSTERMANN
          It doesn't --

                     CRANE
          IT DOES TO ME!!

The outburst echoes through the empty tunnels -- the ones
through which death will come.

                     OSTERMANN
          It was four days ago.  Tuesday.

                     CRANE
          The day I was shot down.  You knew
          that.
               (beat)
          Why didn't you shoot me -- when I
          said what I said, about wishing I'd
          had more bombs?

                     OSTERMANN
          When I pulled Johann... my son...
          out of the wreckage of my home,
          where my parents were buried with
          him... then everything I hoped,
          everything I valued, felt dead with
          him.  When you said what you said, I
          wanted to kill you -- for Johann.
          But Johann was... happy.  And
          loving.  And forgiving.  And I
          couldn't kill you for Johann.  It
          was for Johann that I let you live.

                     CRANE
          The bombs I dropped, over the
          civilians... It was an accident, the
          bombs spilled off the racks and they
          were fusing and --

                     OSTERMANN
          Bombs fall.  Some hit civilians,
          some don't even detonate.  With your
          bombs that is a fusing problem.
          With ours, there were timing fuses
          on the ones we dropped on London, so
          more civilians would die.  You
          weren't wrong to hate us.

                     CRANE
          You know a lot about bombs, for a
          guy who never dropped them.

                     OSTERMANN
          My brother Reinhold liked to discuss
          such things, the ethical issues of
          war.  He once said to me:  It is
          better to bleed for what is wrong.
          That's why I know he won't survive
          this war either.

                     CRANE
          We're all going to survive.

                     OSTERMANN
          You, maybe.  But not me.

                     CRANE
          No, we can get out.

                     OSTERMANN
          Someone has to hold the SS back, so
          the rest can make it.  I'm happy to
          take that job.  This is a good place
          to die.

They see SS troop movements, preparing for the assault, at
the head of the tunnel.

                     OSTERMANN
          When the time comes for you to run,
          don't look back.  Live.  For me --
          and for Johann.

Hans runs up from the rear of the mine.

                     HANS
          They've broken through!

                     OSTERMANN
          How long to get all the men out?

                     HANS
          Jackson says twenty minutes.

                     OSTERMANN
          Tell him I can give him ten.

Hans hurries back into the depths of the mines.

                     OSTERMANN
          ... Maybe.

Just then a Tiger tank fitted with a flamethrower attacks the
mouth of the mine, spraying burning gasoline over everything
in the mouth of the mine.  The SS infantry attacks
simultaneously; at the first break in the flame, they run out
and attach chains to the mine tractor; then the tank reverses
and drags the tractor out of the mine, clearing the mine
entrance.

THE BATTLE FOR THE MINES - VARIOUS SHOTS

Ostermann surprises Crane again; instead of hunkering down in
his makeshift bunker, Ostermann jumps out and runs toward the
attacking SS troops, spraying them with bullets and killing
several, then throwing grenades, blowing up the first of the
SS troopers who enter the mine.

The SS keeps attacking relentlessly, sending a hail of fire
back at Ostermann; he presses back against the mine wall as
bullets zing all around him.  He jumps back and fires another
fusillade at the attackers; but he has no more grenades, and
the swarming SS are about to overrun him...

Crane moves up, firing, taking out the SS man closest to
Ostermann.

                     OSTERMANN
          Fall back!

He and Crane race deeper into the mines, as the SS bullets
spark the walls in pursuit of them.

They reach a corner, and another defensive position;
Ostermann grabs up another machine pistol.  He sees the first
Tiger tank now entering the mine.

                     OSTERMANN
          The tanks are vulnerable from the
          rear!

But then he sees the second Tiger moving in, its turret
reversed so that it rolls back to back with the first tank,
so that neither is vulnerable.  Ostermann leads Crane down
another passage.

The tanks rumble through the mine.  But some of the passages
are too narrow for the tanks.  SS troopers move down these,
and run into the defensive positions Ostermann set up; small
arms battles break out.  The prisoners and their guards fight
bravely; many die, but they kill many of the SS.

At one defensive post, the men are dying one by one; but
Ostermann and Crane run up and start firing alongside the
defenders, driving the attackers back.  Then the tanks appear
at the end of the tunnel branch.  They can't get through; but
the lead tank swings its turret around to fire.

                     OSTERMANN
          Run!

The Americans scatter, just as the tank fires.  The 88mm
cannon shell blasts their defensive post apart; but most of
the Americans escape.  One of the guards is killed there.

Ostermann is thinking fast as the survivors gather around
him.  They've been driven back toward Jackson, who runs up.

                     JACKSON
          We're making the hole bigger but its
          hard for the men to crawl over the
          debris!

                     CRANE
          We're getting slaughtered!  How much
          longer?

                     JACKSON
          Ten minutes!

Ostermann starts away alone.

                     CRANE
          Where are you going?

                     OSTERMANN
          To stop the tanks.

INT.  TUNNELS

The two tanks rumble through the tunnels, blasting everything
in their way.  As they roll through one tunnel, Ostermann
drops down between the two -- which are still back to back.
He has been hanging from the overhead wiring in the ceiling.

He places charges on the rear of the first tank and then the
other.  The tank crew inside the Tigers hear him on their
tank, and can't shoot him; the turret of the lead tank opens
and a man pops up to try to shoot Ostermann, but Ostermann is
looking for that, and shoots the tank commander instead.  The
turret tries to turn but can't in the enclosed space.  The
charges are about to blow.  Ostermann scrambles over the
tank, and runs.

The machine gunner inside the tank now has Ostermann in his
field of fire, and is about to blow him apart as the charges
explode, destroying both tanks.

The blast catches Ostermann from behind and sends him
tumbling forward like a kicked doll.

But the explosion slows the SS too; their infantry pauses in
their attack...

Crane rushes forward, firing; he reaches Ostermann, and finds
him stunned but otherwise unwounded.  Crane drags Ostermann
back to the new defensive position Hans and some Sad Sacks
have set up.  Crane can only shake his head at Ostermann's
inventiveness and courage.  He is banged up, bloody, but
still alive.

Jackson runs up.

                     JACKSON
          Thirty more men to go, and we're
          home free!

Then they hear a terrible sound -- another tank.

BEHIND THE SS TROOPS

Another Tiger appears.  And moving up behind them is
Bleicher, backed by trucks with more SS reinforcements.  He
is calm; but he is not in the line of fire either.  He gives
orders, and gestures; the new Tiger moves forward.

OSTERMANN AND THE AMERICANS

see the new tank reach the wreckage of the other tanks.  It
can't get past; but the tank commander now has a map of the
mines, and he backs up and moves down another passage...

Ostermann and Crane see this and know they've had it.

                     OSTERMANN
          They know the tunnels now; the SS
          has found the map diagrams.

                     JACKSON
          What...?

                     CRANE
          They'll get behind us with the
          Tiger.  We can't stop them.

They have a moment, knowing they're finished.

                     OSTERMANN
          Leave me here.  Give me whatever
          weapons we have left, and leave me.

                     JACKSON
          We can't do that.

                     OSTERMANN
          That is an order -- and you swore to
          obey me, remember?

The Sad Sacks, too weak to walk, are huddled there.

                     SAD SACK
          We're staying too.  We're too weak
          to get through the slot anyway.

Jackson and Crane each pick up a helpless flyer in a
piggyback carry.

                     CRANE
          We'll be back for everybody.

They move to the rear of the tunnel, each carrying a man.
Ostermann watches them go, then picks up a panzerfaust and
blasts a mine support behind them, causing a minor cave in.

Crane and Jackson see what happened; they can do nothing
about it now.

INT.  MINE - AT THE PASSAGE

Crane and Jackson reach the passage, where Boyle and Benton
are helping the last men through the open passage.  Far
behind them, beyond the small new obstruction Ostermann
caused, they hear the firing begin as the final battle
begins.  But the soldiers on Crane's back is moaning, and
Crane forces himself into the escape tunnel.

INT.  THE TUNNEL ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE PASSAGE

Plessky, the prisoner with the makeshift American flag, is
holding it at the end of a stick, as he and some other POW's
lead the column of prisoners.  They see a light far ahead,
and make toward it.  And then...

                     VOICE
          Stop right there!

                     PLESSKY
          Americans?

                     VOICE
          Damn right, Pal, and you better have
          a password.

                     PLESSKY
          Plessky, 101st Bomb Group --
          Prisoner of War.

The sentries come out.  Americans.

INT.  MINES - OSTERMANN AND HIS MEN

The SS is attacking from the side tunnel; Ostermann and the
Sad Sacks are cut off in both directions.  Ostermann is
bobbing up, firing, and ducking again, but the Sad Sacks are
too weak and too inexperienced to fight that way; they just
struggle to their feet and fire -- and one by one they are
cut down.

Ostermann looks at the last one to die -- the one who first
volunteered to stay.  Brave men, lost; but no time to think
of that now...

Ostermann is the last one left; he fires his machine pistol;
it sputters its last rounds.  An SS lieutenant leads several
infantrymen on a charge; they overrun Ostermann's position --
but he fights them off hand to hand, stabbing, headbutting,
snapping necks.

Ostermann picks up the weapon from the dead lieutenant, and
waits, ready to go down fighting.  A Tiger with a huge
spotlight rumbles toward him... He's nearly blinded by the
light.  Ostermann cocks his weapon... he's ready to die, when
he hears...

                     LISE'S VOICE
          ... Klaus?...

Ostermann is stunned; could he be hearing this?

                     OSTERMANN
          Lise...?

                     LISE'S VOICE
          Klaus!

He stands, staring toward the blinding spotlight behind the
Tiger.  Shielding his eyes from the light, he peers at the
darkness, and sees Lise, moving forward, held by Bleicher.

Bleicher lets her go; she rushes to Ostermann, grips him.
She is crying; Ostermann grips his wife, and looks up at
Bleicher; Bleicher is not smiling, but his face is that of
Satan, holding all the cards.

EXT.  MINES - THE AMERICAN ARMY ENCAMPMENT - DAWN

Jackson and his men walk out into a new day, and freedom.
The American army is encamped on this side of the mountain;
the camp bustles in rich American surplus.  The fresh
American troops, at first surprised by the appearance of so
many POW's, are scrambling to welcome them; the prisoners are
overwhelmed; some celebrate, some weep.  An American COLONEL,
brought from his command tent, finds Jackson.

                     COLONEL
          You in command of this bunch?

For a moment Jackson hesitates, glancing back toward the
mines, where they left Ostermann.  Then he shakes the
Colonel's hand.

                     JACKSON
          Yeah.  I'm Jackson.

                     COLONEL
          I'm Thorn.  Looks like you guys went
          through some shit.

                     JACKSON
          There were some other prisoners --
          eight thousand...

                     COLONEL
          Those guys from Spremberg?  We
          liberated them yesterday.

All alive; all his men alive; Jackson struggles not to weep.

Crane is last to emerge from the mine; he hands the sick
soldier to one of the waiting medics, then runs back to the
mine.  Benton and Boyle, attending other POW's, see him go.

INT.  TUNNELS

Several sentries are now guarding the passageway; Crane grabs
the rifle of one, but the SENTRY resists.

                     SENTRY
          Sir, I --

                     CRANE
          Gimme your rifle!  And your
          flashlight, that's an order!

The soldier relents; Crane takes his weapons and moves back
into the passage.  The sentry calls after Crane --

                     SENTRY
          The war's over!  The Russians have
          entered Berlin!

THE GERMAN SIDE OF THE PASSAGE

Crane reenters a surreal darkness.  Blue cordite smoke drifts
everywhere; Crane, tense and wary, darts through the smoke.
A strange silence hanging over everything.  He sees dead
POW's, dead SS troopers... but no one alive.

Crane reaches the place where Ostermann was.  Dead bodies all
around -- but no Ostermann.  Crane is baffled; then he snaps
the rifle around as a body stirs beside him.  It is Hans,
badly wounded, barely alive.

                     CRANE
          Hans!...

                     HANS
          They took him!... Bleicher...

                     CRANE
          Took him?... Where would they take
          him, Hans?

                     HANS
          Bleicher said... the Black Eagles
          would save Germany.

Crane spins again; Boyle and Benton appear.

                     CRANE
          The SS took him.

                     BOYLE
          He was a good man.

They look down; Hans has died.  Boyle closes Hans' eyes.  He
and Benton turn to go back to the American lines.

                     BOYLE
          Coming?

But Crane stays put.  He pulls out the maps and documents he
tried to give back to Ostermann, the ones with the escape
routes marked, and the plans for the final defense.

                     CRANE
          The Black Eagles... They kept
          Ostermann alive...

The other two don't understand.

                     CRANE
          I'm going back.

                     BENTON
          Back?

                     CRANE
          The SS marked escape routes.  If
          they're clear to come out, they're
          clear to go in.

                     BOYLE
          What are you talking about?

                     CRANE
          Berlin.

                     BOYLE
          Berlin?  With the whole Russian army
          coming in, and the Germans --

                     CRANE
          That's exactly why we have to go.

                     BOYLE
          Go?

                     BENTON
          We?

                     CRANE
          They want Ostermann to lead the
          Black Eagles.  It's nut's, but
          that's why they've kept him alive.
          I have a diagram of exactly where
          they'll be.  And I owe him.

                     BENTON
          Then you go.

                     CRANE
          I will.

He kneels to the dead SS lieutenant and starts taking his
uniform.  Boyle and Benton can't believe Crane is serious.

                     BOYLE
          You're the one who's nuts!

                     CRANE
          When this war is over, what are you
          gonna have left?

                     BENTON
          What, me personally?  An
          exceptionally large dick, and fifty
          more years to enjoy it.

                     CRANE
          What good's a big dick if you got no
          balls behind it?

                     BENTON
          Fuck you.

                     CRANE
          I'm gonna live through this war.
          And what I'm not gonna do is go
          through the rest of my life knowing
          a German I fought against put his
          life on the line to save a whole mob
          of POW's -- and not one of us would
          do the same for him.

Crane strips off the dead SS officer's uniform and starts
walking away.  For a long beat, Benton and Boyle watch Crane.
Then they erupt...

                     BOYLE
          Dammit!  DAMMIT!

Benton and Boyle start stripping off SS uniforms too.

EXT.  GERMAN ROAD - DAY

In a decrepit car with no roof, they bounce along a rutted
road.  Artillery rumbles in the distance.  Boyle drives,
Benton checks weapons, Crane studies the diagrams.

                     BENTON
          Anybody know if we're still behind
          the German lines?

                     CRANE
          I'm trying, I'm trying!

                     BENTON
          Should'a got a better car.

                     BOYLE
          You just take care of the weapons,
          I'll take care of the car... Uh oh.

They've reached a checkpoint -- with German guards.

                     BOYLE
          How you wanna handle this?

                     CRANE
          We brass it out.  I'll order 'em
          around, like Ostermann did.

Boyle stops; but before Crane can step out the guards snap to
attention and salute; they stand aside and let the car pass.
Boyle hits the gas and they roll through.

                     BOYLE
          They think we're hard-asses, on our
          way to die.

                     BENTON
          They're right.

                                                  CUT TO:

CLOSE - OSTERMANN, BLINDFOLDED

and with his hands tied behind his back as he is led through
corridors by Bleicher and several SS goons.

                     OSTERMANN
          Lise, are you there?!... We're in
          Berlin, aren't we?  Where is Lise?

We stay CLOSE on Ostermann, as he is thrust to a seat in a
wooden chair.  Then his mouth is forced open, and a meat hook
is shoved in, its razor sharp point touching the roof of his
mouth.  He hears...

                     BLEICHER'S VOICE
          Don't struggle, Klaus... It's easier
          if you do not struggle.

The meat hook is at the end of a rope; the goons throw the
rope over a thick mahogany beam, and tug it up, dragging
Ostermann quickly to his feet to avoid the hook penetrating
his mouth.  He emits a groan, and blood trickles from a
corner of his mouth.

                     BLEICHER
          Yes, Klaus, we are in Berlin.  And
          Lise is safe.  I will let you see
          her in a moment.  But first I wanted
          you to see someone else.

Bleicher pulls off the blindfold.  Ostermann finds himself in
a paneled room -- Bleicher's office -- at SS Headquarters.
Then Bleicher steps aside and lets Ostermann see another man
hanging on another hook behind him.  The man is stripped
almost naked; he has been whipped and beaten while hanging
from the hook; and Ostermann in horror recognizes the
withered limbs...

                     OSTERMANN
          Reinhold...

Ostermann garbles the name as he moans it, the hook in his
mouth.  Reinhold is still alive; his eyes come open and he
looks across at his brother, hanging there too.

                     BLEICHER
          You, the two brothers, who always
          thought you were so much better than
          I.

Ostermann's eyes roll toward Bleicher.

                     BLEICHER
          Remember, I have Lise -- and I could
          hang her up beside you.

Bleicher takes out his dagger and cuts the rope holding up
Ostermann.  Ostermann falls to the floor.

                     BLEICHER
          You and your brother have betrayed
          everything.  And yet you can still
          serve the Fuhrer -- for you are the
          great Klaus Ostermann, last of the
          Black Eagles.

                     OSTERMANN
          You are insane.

                     BLEICHER
          Stalingrad!  Remember?  We held
          ninety-nine percent of the city,
          before the Russians pushed us back.
          We will rally, as they did!

                     OSTERMANN
          Rally what?  We have nothing left!

                     BLEICHER
          We have the Black Eagles.

Bleicher signals and an SS goon opens the door, admitting
Lise.  She's horrified by the spectacle of Reinhold hanging,
and her husband on the floor.  She kneels to him.

                     LISE
          Klaus!

Bleicher gives them just enough contact to make his next
point effective; he has his men pull Lise away.

                     BLEICHER
          Lead the Eagles to victory, Klaus.
          She will be here waiting for you,
          along with your brother.

EXT.  BERLIN'S PERIMETER - DAY

As Crane, Boyle and Benton roll into the city, they pass
refugees streaming out -- civilians and soldiers, who scatter
off the road as they see the three men in the SS uniforms
heading back into Berlin.

                     CRANE
          Deserters.  They're afraid of us.
               (checks map)
          That way.  Keep going.

They drive into the city.  Artillery rumbles in the distance
but Berlin is strangely quiet.

EXT.  BERLIN - DAY

Crane, Boyle and Benton have ditched the car and are picking
their way through the eerie landscape.

                     CRANE
          Everything's so bombed out I'm lost.
          I say we spread out and find a
          landmark, then meet back here.

They take off.  We see VARIOUS SHOTS:  each of them picking
through the streets and spotting SS guards, with civilians
manning trenches beyond.

BOYLE

is darting cautiously back the way he came when --

                     VOICE
          Halt!

He freezes, and turns to see an SS trooper, covering him.
Suddenly Crane appears, speaking German.

                     CRANE
               (subtitles)
          I have caught a deserter!  Where do
          I take him?

                     SS TROOPER
          I think both of you are deserters!
          Come with me.

Crane and Boyle are trapped; then the SS guards' throat is
slit by Benton, slipping up silently from behind.

                     CRANE
          We better get off the street.

EXT.  BERLIN - BLEICHER'S CAR - DAY

Ostermann is handcuffed, riding with Bleicher in the rear of
an SS car.  They pass through Berlin's inner defenses, where
a regiment of Death's Head SS are gathered.

                     BLEICHER
          Liebstandart.  The Fuhrer's personal
          bodyguard.

                     OSTERMANN
          In uniforms that have never been
          soiled with the filth of battle.

Bleicher ignores the insult; his car reaches a section of
bombed out buildings at the eastern edge of the city, where
rubble has been piled across a broad Berlin boulevard to make
a defensive line.

The car stops.  Bleicher unlocks Ostermann's handcuffs, and
nods toward the soldiers who are gathering at attention.

                     BLEICHER
          Here.  The Black Eagles.

EXT.  AT THE BARRICADE - DAY

From behind, we see the rigid line of soldiers, their
uniforms clean and new, their formation perfect.  Ostermann
steps from the car to face them, and what he sees fills him
with shock and sadness; then we see OSTERMANN'S POV:  The new
"Black Eagles" are fresh-faced boys, no more than twelve-
years-old, terrified, yet tightly braced.

                     OSTERMANN
          My God.  Babies.

                     BLEICHER
          Young men.  The future.

                     OSTERMANN
          Bleicher, don't you understand --

                     BLEICHER
          No!  We will not be defeated!
          Sometimes, even the Fuhrer loses
          faith.  Just imagine, if I can be
          the one, in our darkest hour, who
          brings hope even to him!

                     OSTERMANN
          You are as insane as he is.

Bleicher trembles, pale with rage; but he controls himself.

                     BLEICHER
          You are the symbol of unbreakable
          courage.  Now you must show just
          what it means to be a true son of
          the Fatherland.  Lead them in
          battle.  Hold back the Russians.
          When you have done that, you may
          join your wife and brother.

Bleicher shouts to the regiment of boys --

                     BLEICHER
          Black Eagles!  Here is your new
          commander, a hero who will lead you
          to repulse the invader:  Colonel
          Nicholas Ostermann!

The boys force a cheer.  And in fact the arrival of Klaus von
Ostermann, this hero whom they've seen idolized as
invincible, makes them stand straighter, and gives them
courage.  Ostermann stares at the fresh, faces of the boys.
They are in a virtual canyon of bombed out buildings, with a
regiment of SS troops standing behind the boys, ready to
shoot anyone who tries to run away, and an open, rubble
strewn street ahead, along which the Russians will come.
Ostermann looks at Bleicher... then back at the boys.

                     OSTERMANN
          Soldiers... of the Reich...

Bleicher waves over FRIEDREICH, commander of the SS regiment
that is backing the boys, keeping the boys between themselves
and the Russians.  They have a quick exchange; Friedreich
nods and moves back to his men.  Bleicher gets into his car,
drives away.  Ostermann watches him go, his face like death.

When he looks again at the boys, they snap back to attention.
Ostermann's voice is weak.

                     OSTERMANN
          Take positions along the barricade.

The boys scurry to the wall, eager to show themselves to be
good soldiers in front of the great Nicholas von Ostermann.

Ostermann moves, on legs that have no strength, to the
barricade:  junk to hold back tanks; orphan boys to hold back
men.  He looks at them, so like Johann; his eyes are damp
with tears; he has no hope, no strength.  He hears...

                     BOY'S VOICE
          Sir?

He turns to see a boy -- not a soldier at all.

                     BOY (MATHIAS)
          I'm Mathias, sir.  Do you remember
          me?  Johann and I were in school
          together.

                     OSTERMANN
          ... Mathias.  How did you get here?

                     MATHIAS
          My father died in the army, my
          mother in the bombing.  All of us
          here are orphans.  I just want you
          to know -- Johann was my friend...
          and I... am proud to serve with you.

Ostermann is dying inside, and can't speak.  Mathias sees his
distress...

                     MATHIAS
          If there is anything I can do to
          help...

                     OSTERMANN
          Not unless you can find me about a
          thousand kilos of high explo--

Ostermann stops.

                     MATHIAS
          Sir...?  What is it.

                     OSTERMANN
          Get three more boys.  Quickly!

THE SS OFFICER

He's watching Ostermann, and sees four boys getting rapid
instructions, then running off toward one of the collapsed
buildings that Ostermann directs them to.

OSTERMANN

stands watching them go, as Friedreich, the SS Officer, walks
up to him.

                     SS OFFICER
          No one may leave this barricade.

                     OSTERMANN
          They are scouting firing positions.
          Do you want to stop the Russians, or
          not?

Ostermann shouts to the other boys along the barricade...

                     OSTERMANN
          Be prepared to attack!  When you
          hear my whistle, we will charge the
          enemy!

It would be suicide; the SS Officer knows it.  Satisfied, he
moves back to the SS position behind the regiment of boys.

FROM ONE OF THE COLLAPSED BUILDINGS

Mathias emerges and runs up to Ostermann.

The SS Officer watches as Ostermann listens to the boy, then
looks around and finds an old flower cart among the junk of
the barricade, ordering more boys to drag it out and follow
Mathias with it.  The SS Officer remains curious, but does
not interfere yet.

INT.  SHATTERED BUILDING - DAY

Crane, Boyle and Benton huddle in the shell of a Berlin
building and confer over their maps.

                     CRANE
          We're close.

                     BOYLE
          Lots of SS out there.

Crane looks up, and sees a shaky staircase leading to the
building's roof, from which they can get a better view.

EXT.  POV FROM ROOFTOP - DAY

The contingent of SS troops are manning their command post,
and coordinating the city's inner defenses.  From this POV
the situation is clear:  the SS behind the boys at the
barricade, and down the street the direction from which the
Russians will soon be coming.  We PULL BACK to see the
Americans, watching from the second story of a ruptured
building.  Crane looks through field glasses.

                     CRANE
          The Black Eagles are supposed to
          be... There he is!  Ostermann!

He points across to the defensive position in front of the SS
post, where Ostermann is moving among the boys at the
barricade.

                     BENTON
          Can't be.

Crane hands Benton the glasses.

                     BENTON
          It is.

                     BOYLE
          You were right.  That's why they
          kept him alive -- to lead boys.

                     CRANE
          With a whole regiment of SS fanatics
          down there to make sure they fight.

They look down on it all.

THE CART

rumbles, emerging from the collapsed building and rolling out
into the daylight, pushed by the boys.  It is heavy, groaning
with a load of debris from within the house.

The boys push the cart back to Ostermann, and he directs them
to position it in the barricade.

THE AMERICANS IN THE OTHER BUILDING

look down on the scene through their binoculars, as the SS
Officer leaves his post and moves to Ostermann again.

AT THE BARRICADE

                     SS OFFICER
          Now what?

                     OSTERMANN
          We are strengthening the barricade.
          They must have something to do, to
          feel they are more than targets for
          the Russians.

The officer looks at the cart -- nothing but a huge mound of
broken house timbers, bricks and debris.  He returns to the
SS position.

As the SS Officer leaves, Ostermann moves to the back of the
cart, shoved against the barricade, and subtly uncovers what
the boys have concealed -- the nose of a bomb.

THE AMERICANS IN THE UPPER STORIES are looking down through
their binoculars.  They see the pointed object protruding
from the rubble.

                     CRANE
          Looks like... the nose of a bomb.

                     BOYLE
          Can't be.  They must'a found a spent
          casing.  What's he doing?

Crane, trying to figure it all out, sweeps the line of
buildings on the opposite side of the broad boulevard.  He
stops on the building out of which the bomb came -- and then
he understands.

                     CRANE
          That brilliant son of a bitch.  He's
          found an unexploded bomb.

                     BENTON
          What?

                     CRANE
          He and I talked about it.  We
          dropped 3000 bombs a day on Berlin.
          How many had fusing problems and
          didn't detonate on impact?

                     BOYLE
          We always figured three --

                     CRANE
          Three percent.  Ninety unexploded
          bombs a day.  All he had to do was
          find a structure that's been
          penetrated from above, but not
          leveled with an explosion -- like
          that building there -- and dig the
          bomb out of the rubble.  It would be
          stable until he fused it --

They look down through the binoculars, and see that's what
Ostermann is doing:  working on the bent fusing propeller of
the bomb, to twist it into place and make it live.

                     BOYLE
          But what's he gonna do with it, once
          he's got it fused?

                     BENTON
          I don't know, but he better hurry.

Benton is looking out toward the horizon.  Several blocks
away he sees the advance units of the Russian infantry,
moving into Berlin.

AT THE BARRICADE, OSTERMANN

is working gingerly on the nose of the bomb; Mathias and the
other boys who surround him, and help conceal what he is
doing from the SS, watch in nervous awe as Ostermann frees
the fusing propeller and delicately arms the bomb.

                     MATHIAS
          Colonel...

The SS Officer is coming again.  Ostermann climbs over the
barricade, toward the Russian lines, and yells to the boys --

                     OSTERMANN
          Charge!  Charge!

The boys are surprised -- but they follow Ostermann,
clambering over the barricade and charging down the street,
yelling like he does.

The SS Officer is baffled.

                     SS OFFICER
          What are they doing?  The Russians
          aren't in sight yet!

ON THE STREET, WITH THE BOYS

Ostermann halts the seemingly meaningless charge.

                     OSTERMANN
          Take cover!

The boys obey, finding places to hide among the buildings and
rubble.

UP IN THE OVERLOOK

Crane suddenly understands exactly what Ostermann is doing.

                     CRANE
          He's gonna bring the SS up to the
          bomb!

And sure enough, with their front lines of defense moved up a
hundred yards, the SS Officer whistles, and waves his men
forward -- to the barricade.

Crane shakes his head, marveling at Ostermann's plan.

DOWN ON THE STREET

Ostermann turns back toward the barricade.

                     OSTERMANN
          Stay here.

He starts walking back toward the barricade, where the SS is
taking up the position just occupied by the boys.

AT THE BARRICADE

The SS regiment is occupying shooting positions at the
barricade, and the SS Officer is trying to make sense of what
Ostermann has done.  He remembers the cart, and looks over at
it... He sees the nose of the bomb... Frowns, realizes what
it is... Realizes what Ostermann is doing...

And Ostermann shoots him in the chest.

AT THE OVERLOOK

                     CRANE
          They've seen the bomb!  Ostermann is
          trying to detonate it himself!

Crane, Boyle and Benton scramble to climb downstairs.

ON THE STREET

Ostermann charges the barricade, desperate to reach the bomb
that none of the SS knows about now.  Seeing their officer
shot, two more SS men spin toward him and Ostermann guns them
down too; but then another gets off a quick shot, and
Ostermann goes down, shot in the leg.

He tries to rise, but now all the SS men at the barricade are
firing at him; he scrambles for cover, behind a pile of
rubble on the street.  But now he's pinned down completely.

Behind him, the boys in the Black Eagles are confused, hiding
in their holes; and the SS, at the barricade, don't know what
to do next either.

CRANE, BOYLE AND BENTON emerge from their building.  They are
behind the barricade, behind the SS.  Crane is trying to
figure out what to do next -- when Benton suddenly darts
toward the Germans.

Too late to stop him, Crane and Boyle realize what Benton
means to do.  They watch, helpless and transfixed, as Benton
runs toward the bomb.

One of the SS sees him coming, and shouts --

                     SS MAN
          Halt!

Benton keeps running.  The SS man fires; Benton shoots him
and runs on...

OSTERMANN SEE BENTON

and can't believe it at first.

BENTON

takes a bullet in the belly.  He falls four feet short of the
cart and the bomb.

The men in the SS regiment look even more uncertain; what is
going on here?  Then one of them sees the nose of the bomb.

                     SS MAN
          Here!  A bomb!

SLOW MOTION - OSTERMANN'S CHARGE

Ostermann jumps up and charges again, firing at the SS.

The SS fire back.  The boys in the Black Eagles are too
terrified to do anything but freeze in place.  Crane and
Boyle start firing from their position.

OSTERMANN moves as in a dream.  He is hit in the shoulder,
and goes down... But he rises again, struggling on... OVER
THIS, we hear the verse Reinhold read, from Isaiah:

                     REINHOLD (V.O.)
          "They that wait upon the lord shall
          renew their strength; they shall
          mount up with wings as eagles; they
          shall run, and not be weary; they
          shall walk, and not faint..."

He is hit again in the leg, and falls again.  Once more he
rises -- but now he can barely move, and all the guns of the
SS regiment are aimed at him, when...

Benton, still alive, rolls over onto his elbows, pulls
himself up, lifts a brick from the pile of rubble, and slams
it against the nose of the bomb.

A WHITE EXPLOSION

It's like the whole world going off.  Debris, more rubble, SS
bodies blown everywhere.

Ostermann and the boys are showered with fallout from the
blast.

Crane and Boyle, closer to the explosion, are buried in the
collapse of the building in which they were taking cover.

Suddenly everything is strangely silent.  The boys peek
tentatively out of their hiding places; first Mathias
approaches Ostermann, and then the others gather around him.

He struggles to his feet; he bleeds from several wounds, but
he can still stand.

All the Black Eagles, the orphan regiment, are looking to
Ostermann, wondering what to do next.  Then one of them
yells --

                     BOY
          Look!

Far down the street, they see the Russians advancing,
infantrymen moving carefully, house to house.

                     OSTERMANN
          Run, boys.

They want to run -- but they can't believe he's ordering it.

                     OSTERMANN
          Throw down your weapons and run!
          And keep running!  Run as far as you
          can!  Run!!

First one, then two, then the whole crowd of them obey; the
boys throw down their guns and run from the Russian advance
-- all except Mathias.

                     OSTERMANN
          You too, Mathias.

                     MATHIAS
          I will stay with you.

Before Ostermann can argue he hears the stirring in the
rubble, and aims his weapon; then Crane and Boyle climb out
of the rubble.

They stare at each other.  Then they can't ignore the
Russians.  Crane and Boyle grab Ostermann, and along with
Mathias they help support Ostermann, guiding him away.

                     CRANE
          We've got to get out of here.

                     OSTERMANN
          Not yet.

INT.  SS HEADQUARTERS - DAY

The whole place is in disarray: offices are abandoned,
documents have been thrown into piles on the floor and set on
fire; some SS officers are running past, others stare at the
floor like zombies.

Bleicher walks purposefully through the building looking for
someone -- and spots him, another SS officer named LINDMAN.

                     BLEICHER
          I must see the Fuhrer.

Lindman glances at him as if Bleicher is crazy, and tries to
walk on.  Bleicher grabs him.

                     BLEICHER
          I must see him!

                     LINDMAN
          Let go of me.  Hitler is dead.  He
          shot himself in his bunker.

Bleicher is so stunned that Lindman easily breaks away,
moving into his own office.  Bleicher follows him in.

                     BLEICHER
          No!  That is not --

But Lindman puts his Luger to his own head and shoots
himself.  Bleicher looks around; the reality of what is
happening is seeping in, for the first time it seems.  He
wanders back toward his own office.

INT.  SS HEADQUARTERS ENTRANCE - DAY

Ostermann, Crane, Boyle and Mathias slip into the building;
no guards challenge them, no one seems to notice.  The place
is a shambles.  To their right is a once-grand ballroom,
where hollowed-eyed SS officers are staring at the floor; as
Ostermann and the others pass, another one of the officers
shoots himself.

INT.  BLEICHER'S OFFICE - DAY

Reinhold lies on the floor; we can't tell if he is dead or
alive.  Lise is tied in a chair; she is too terrified to
speak, as Bleicher wanders into his office and stares about,
as if he's not sure where he is.

Bleicher takes out his pistol... checks it... cocks it.

He looks at Lise.  He looks at Reinhold on the floor.
Suddenly he kicks Reinhold.

                     BLEICHER
          You did this.  You and all the
          others who wouldn't see the future.

Reinhold moans, still alive.  Bleicher lifts him up, and tugs
the rope again to stretch Reinhold out on the meat hook.  The
point is biting into Reinhold's mouth; he is conscious.
Bleicher holds the rope, taking his last pleasure in seeing
Reinhold die.

                     BLEICHER
          We were right!  Right!  But you
          would not --

                     OSTERMANN
          Bleicher.

Bleicher looks toward the door, seeing Ostermann there,
backed by the others.  But Bleicher still holds the rope; if
he twitches the slightest bit he will pull the point of the
hook up into Reinhold's brain.  Ostermann looks at Lise,
still alive.  He sees Reinhold still breathing.

                     OSTERMANN
          Let go of the rope.

                     BLEICHER
          He must die.  He is a criminal.

                     OSTERMANN
          Let go of the rope!

Bleicher thinks a moment.

                     BLEICHER
          All right.

He lets go.  Reinhold drops in a helpless pile -- and in that
instant Bleicher snatches up his Luger and points it at
Lise's head.  Bleicher grins.

                     BLEICHER
          I'm leaving with her.  Just like you
          told her on the phone, she is young.
          She can start a new life.  A new
          family.  Perhaps a new race.

Ostermann sees a movement behind Bleicher -- but forces his
eyes to stay on his enemy.

                     OSTERMANN
          No.

                     BLEICHER
          Get out of my way.

                     OSTERMANN
          No!!

                     BLEICHER
          Then watch her die.

A shape rises silently behind Bleicher.  It is Reinhold.
With his strong hands he holds the meat hook -- and swings
it, catching Bleicher in the neck and ripping the aorta from
his throat.  The Luger jerks, firing into the air, and falls;
Bleicher claws at his throat and can't stanch the spurting of
blood.  He drops dead.

Ostermann clutches Lise and Reinhold.

EXT.  ENTRANCE TO SS HEADQUARTERS - DAY

The doors are pushed open, and Crane steps outside, stripping
off his German uniform to reveal the American uniform
underneath.  He looks around; no one in sight.  He beckons,
and out comes Ostermann, supported by -- and supporting --
Lise and Mathias.  Boyle, down to his American uniform, comes
out too, helping Reinhold.

They look around the shattered streets.  To the west, they're
empty.  To the east, they see the Russian troops advancing
behind a huge red banner.

They struggle to the west.  They come upon a car, abandoned.
Boyle jumps in and tries the starter.  It grinds... grinds...
and catches.

                     CRANE
          Hop in.

Ostermann looks at him, and nods in wordless gratitude.  They
pile into the car, Ostermann, Lise, Reinhold and Mathias in
the back, Crane up front with Boyle.

The car lurches away, headed west.  And in back, Ostermann
hugs his wife, and Reinhold, and draws Mathias into the
circle.  Ostermann's eyes are full of peace, and the light of
triumph.

                                                FADE OUT.