MIDWAY
written by
Wes Tooke

Centropolis Entertainment
The Mark Gordon Company

This is a true story.

Even the parts that seem like Hollywood bullshit.

OVER BLACK:
Faint splashes and the soothing sound of water lapping against
a shore. We slowly FADE IN to...
EXT. LAKE - DAY
Imagine a Japanese woodblock painting brought to life. Two
ducks bob in the water, a spectacular thatched pagoda rising
behind them. The trees blaze with the colors of late autumn.
Everything is peaceful and placid until -SPLASH! Nets slam down between the ducks. As the birds burst
into flight, honking their displeasure, we realize that the
nets are connected to long bamboo handles.
Four men in military uniforms wield the odd contraptions:
two wear the blue of the Japanese navy and two are westerners.
SUPER: "HAMARIKYU DETACHED PALACE - NOVEMBER, 1937"
As the Japanese officers advance on a new pair of ducks,
CAPTAIN BERNARD RAWLINGS, 48, gives his net a disgusted look.
He speaks with an English accent.
CAPTAIN RAWLINGS
This is bloody ridiculous.
His companion, EDWIN LAYTON, 34, wears the uniform of a
lieutenant commander in the US Navy. Layton has a dry sense
of humor and a perpetual worried squint -- he sees trouble
lurking behind every corner.
LAYTON
Wasn't your empire built on ridiculous
traditions?
CAPTAIN RAWLINGS
Don't defend them, Layton. You might
speak their language, but they still
think you're a barbarian.
Layton gestures at their idyllic surroundings.
LAYTON
Be honest... won't you miss this
place when you're gone?
Rawlings snorts.
CAPTAIN RAWLINGS
The next time I see the little
buggers, I hope it's through the
sights of a fourteen-inch gun.
A HONK from the lake catches their attention -- one of the
Japanese officers has successfully netted a duck. Layton
shouts in subtitled Japanese.

2.
LAYTON
Well done, Kimura-san.
The officer turns and stiffly bows. Layton bows back and
then glances at Rawlings.
LAYTON (CONT'D)
If things keep heading in this
direction, you'll get your wish.
INT. HAMARIKYU DETACHED PALACE - BANQUET ROOM - NIGHT
Waiters carve raw duck in the corner as a group of Japanese
and foreign officers eat sukiyaki at a traditional table. A
Japanese OFFICER is concluding a fiery toast. He turns toward
the Emperor's portrait and raises his glass.
JAPANESE OFFICER
Banzai! Banzai! Banzai!
The officer drains his glass in a gulp, and the other men
immediately follow his lead. It's impossible to miss the
naked machismo in this room: no Japanese officer is going to
be shamed in front of a foreigner and vice versa.
As the men refill their glasses with scotch from ceramic
jugs, Rawlings stands to toast. His face is flushed.
CAPTAIN RAWLINGS
On behalf of the British Empire, I
want to thank Admiral Yamamoto for
this invitation. May our nations
forever remain partners on the seas.
All eyes swing to the head of the table where the handsome
and charismatic ADMIRAL YAMAMOTO, 52, sits. The words hang
in the air for a long moment before Yamamoto raises his own
sake glass and drains it.
The other men practically trip over each other to match him.
Layton, however, just touches the glass to his lips -seemingly impervious to the social pressure of the situation.
As Layton sets down the glass, he notices Yamamoto staring
at him. Their eyes meet for an awkward moment.
INT. HAMARIKYU DETACHED PALACE - SHOIN ROOM - NIGHT
The sounds of the party spill through the thin paper of a
shoji door as Layton examines a set of woodblock prints.
Yamamoto enters, sliding the door closed behind him. He
glances at Layton and then speaks in subtitled Japanese.
YAMAMOTO
You don't like whiskey?
Layton turns, caught off guard. But he recovers quickly.

3.
LAYTON
I could ask you the same question,
admiral. I have it on good authority
that your glass is filled with tea.
Yamamoto is briefly taken aback -- he's rarely challenged -but then he gives Layton a wry smile.
YAMAMOTO
An old Chinese trick.
(beat)
What else have you learned during
your time in Japan?
Layton hears the dangerous subtext in that question: are you
a spy? He therefore does his best to shrug it off.
LAYTON
I'm just the assistant naval attaché.
YAMAMOTO
Which is why I know that you must
have an opinion. I was once our naval
attaché in Washington.
LAYTON
After your years at Harvard.
Yamamoto smiles again -- impressed that Layton has done his
homework. He responds in fluent English.
YAMAMOTO
Like you, I thought there was value
in studying a potential adversary.
LAYTON
(also English)
And what did you learn?
YAMAMOTO
Do you know the Japanese nickname
for America?
LAYTON
Beikoku.
YAMAMOTO
Exactly. 'Rice country.' A place of
endless resources. And I saw with my
own eyes the vast oilfields of Texas.
The steelyards of Pittsburgh. The
factories of Detroit.
LAYTON
I heard you told the prime minster
that Japan can't win a war with the
United States.

4.
YAMAMOTO
Not exactly. I said that we couldn't
win a long war.
LAYTON
I heard another rumor that your life
might be in danger. The Nationalists
think you're too moderate.
Yamamoto is silent for a long moment, and Layton wonders if
he has pushed his luck too far. Finally -YAMAMOTO
Japan is at a crossroads. We are
eager to become a world power, yet
we are dangerously reliant on outside
forces. We get 80 percent of our oil
and scrap metal from your country.
If that supply is threatened, it
will force us into drastic measures.
Layton knows exactly what Yamamoto means by "drastic
measures," and the purpose of their conversation abruptly
becomes clear to him.
LAYTON
You want me to pass this information
along to Washington.
YAMAMOTO
Tell them not to push us into a
corner. Your government must give
those of us who are more reasonable
a chance to carry the day.
LAYTON
Nobody wants a war.
Yamamoto shakes his head, expression grim.
YAMAMOTO
I wish that were true.
Yamamoto sticks out his hand, and the two men shake. As the
admiral starts back toward his party -YAMAMOTO (CONT'D)
Sayonara, Layton-san.
And then the door slides shut and he's gone. As Layton stares
after him, lost in thought, the rising GROWL of engines begins
to pound at our ears...
CUT TO:
EXT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLIGHT DECK - DAY
The stiff ocean breeze almost knocks us sideways as the vast
teak deck pitches up and down in the steady rollers of the
Pacific. We're aboard...

5.
...the aircraft carrier USS ENTERPRISE. Mankind's latest and
greatest superweapon.
It's been barely three decades since the Wright Brothers
went aloft in their glorified kite, and now this ship -20,000 tons of American steel -- can attack a target with 80
warplanes, escape at 30 knots, and hit a new target the next
afternoon a thousand miles away.
At least that's the theory. It has never been tested.
SUPER: "FOUR YEARS LATER. 175 MILES WEST OF PEARL HARBOR."
The relentless GROWL is coming from four Douglas SBD Dauntless
dive bombers, which are warming up their engines. The SBDs
are built for war with snub wings and a sturdy airframe.
We PUSH past the planes until we reach a lone figure staring
out at the ocean. DICK BEST, 31, wears the leather bomber
jacket of a pilot and oozes from every pore with what Tom
Wolfe will someday call "the right stuff." He might be the
top pilot in the whole damn Navy -- and he knows it.
Best remains locked on the ocean as another pilot strides up
behind him. CLARENCE DICKINSON, 29, is the Goose to Best's
Maverick. He's lanky with a northern Florida drawl.
Best speaks without looking at Dickinson.
BEST
War is coming.
DICKINSON
You've been saying that for years.
BEST
Yeah, but now I mean it.
Best flicks his head at the bridge behind them.
BEST (CONT'D)
The old man feels it too. That's why
we've been flying double scouting
missions this whole trip.
DICKINSON
Then we better get in some R&R while
we can. I'm going to haul ass into
Pearl this morning ahead of the fleet
and hit the beach with Cliff.
BEST
I can't go with you boys.
(off Dickinson's look)
They're holding back Scouting Six.
Just in case.
DICKINSON
Well, I'd hate to be you.

6.
Dickinson grins, sticking it to his friend. Best is about to
reply, but they're interrupted by the arrival of BILL MILLER,
24, Dickinson's radioman. He salutes the pilots, eyes locked
on his commander.
MILLER
Morning, sir. The aircraft is spotted.
Best gives Miller a long look -- he seems jumpy.
BEST
You okay, Miller?
MILLER
It's my last day of sea duty, sir.
And I'm the only one from my radio
class who hasn't crashed.
BEST
Don't worry, Miller. Even Mr.
Dickinson can fly from here to Pearl
Harbor without getting you wet.
Dickinson snorts at the jab and then starts toward the waiting
planes. But then he glances back.
DICKINSON
Me and Cliff will be thinking of you
when we're lying on the beach.
BEST
I hope a shark bites your dick off.
Dickinson smiles to himself as he continues to his SBD.
EXT. USS ARIZONA - FANTAIL DECK - DAY
The battleship gleams on a gorgeous Sunday morning in Pearl
Harbor. A bleary-eyed band gathers around the flag to raise
the colors while a crew of sailors put out folding chairs.
LT. CLIFF JANZ, 31, emerges onto the deck. He looks like a
Navy recruiting poster with blue eyes and a square jaw. One
of the men setting up the chairs (SULLY) catches his eye.
SULLY
Hey, lieutenant. How come I've got
to set up the chairs for church even
though I don't believe in God?
Cliff gives Sully a dry look.
CLIFF
Because your only religion is chasing
girls. And the Navy isn't going to
pay you for that.
As the other men smile, Cliff continues toward the flag.

7.
CLIFF (CONT'D)
Let's hurry this up, gentlemen. I've
got a date with a beach and a beer.
The drone of an engine abruptly catches Cliff's attention: a
plane is approaching the ship at a high speed.
Cliff stares at the aircraft, his brain processing the shape
of the wings. And then he shouts -CLIFF (CONT'D)
Get down!
RAT-TAT-TAT! Bullets PING off the battleship's armor. Cliff
catches a glimpse of the plane's insignia as it passes: the
red emblem of the rising sun.
As the men scramble back to their feet, Cliff scans the skies.
And that's when he sees a squadron of high-altitude bombers
approaching battleship row. Dozens and dozens of planes.
Sully glances at Cliff, fighting his rising panic.
SULLY
Is it the Japs?
But Cliff is already dashing toward the ladder that leads up
to the next deck. He shouts over his shoulder -CLIFF
Sound general quarters.
And then he's climbing. We stay TIGHT on Cliff as he reaches
the top of the ladder and sprints down the exposed corridor
that runs along the port side of the ship.
General quarters abruptly BLARES and confused men begin to
emerge from various hatches. Cliff bowls past a few of them,
already sweating in the heat, and then -BOOM! A near miss shakes the deck. The percussion wave slams
Cliff against the rail, and he falls, one hand clutching a
broken rib. But he immediately scrambles to his feet, eyes
locked on a ladder that leads upward.
An instant later Cliff is climbing again. Bullets PING off
the metal around him, but he keeps moving. He finally shoves
open a hatch and pulls himself into -INT. USS ARIZONA - GUN DIRECTOR - CONTINUOUS
The ten-man crew stares at Cliff as he enters, white-faced
in the darkness.
CLIFF
We gotta get those planes off us.
Why the hell aren't you firing?
The young ENSIGN spreads his hands, helpless.

8.
ENSIGN
The ammo boxes are locked.
Cliff grabs a fire ax from the wall and smashes it into the
lock. As the door pops open, he points at the rounds inside.
CLIFF
All right. Get the -BOOM! The men are tossed to the deck as a bomb detonates
somewhere on the ship. The sound is deafening in the enclosed
space. Cliff is the first to recover.
CLIFF (CONT'D)
Start firing!
As Cliff turns to exit, the ensign desperately clutches his
arm. His voice is distorted by Cliff's ringing ears.
ENSIGN
Where are you going?
CLIFF
We've gotta get this ship moving.
We're a sitting duck.
And then Cliff drops through the hatch and disappears.
INT. LAYTON HOUSE - DINING ROOM - DAY
EDWIN LAYTON, now 39, reads the paper as he eats breakfast
with his prim wife MIRIAM, 37. The house is decorated with
knickknacks from a dozen different naval posts. Miriam glances
at Layton as she stands to clear the breakfast plates.
MIRIAM
Are you coming to church?
LAYTON
I have to go into the office.
MIRIAM
It's Sunday.
(off his look)
You work too hard.
RING! RING! Layton's head whips around and he stares at the
phone on the wall with transparent dread. It's as if he's
expecting bad news. Miriam gives him a look.
MIRIAM (CONT'D)
Want me to get it?
Layton shakes his head and then stands and warily crosses to
the phone. He answers and listens for a beat. Miriam watches
him, transfixed by the expression on his face.
LAYTON
Tell them I'm coming.

9.
Layton hangs up the phone, his hand shaking slightly.
MIRIAM
Edwin, what's happening?
LAYTON
The Japanese are attacking us.
Her hand flies to her mouth.
MIRIAM
Oh my God. Where?
LAYTON
Here.
EXT. LAYTON HOUSE - DAY
Layton hurries out the front door, now wearing his uniform
and carrying a briefcase. A Cadillac ROADSTER skids to a
halt in front of the house and LIEUTENANT PAUL CROSLEY, 28,
frantically waves from the front seat.
CROSLEY
Come on. I'll give you a lift.
EXT. ROAD - DAY
The Cadillac speeds toward the promontory of Diamond Head,
which conceals Pearl Harbor from view. Lights flash behind
them and Crosley glances in his rear-view mirror.
CROSLEY
Oh, Christ.
A motorcycle COP is trailing them. Layton turns around in
his seat to look. Then -LAYTON
Pull over.
(off Crosley)
He's going to kill himself.
Crosley hits the brakes and the Cadillac rumbles to a stop.
The cop gets off his bike and ambles toward them.
COP
Bit fast for a Sunday -LAYTON
The Japs are attacking Pearl Harbor.
The cop stares at them, confused -- this seems like an
impossible lie. Crosley raises a hand as if swearing an oath.
CROSLEY
It's the God's honest.

10.
INT. USS ARIZONA - BRIDGE - DAY
Cliff bursts onto the bridge, breathing hard. He locks on a
cluster of panicked junior officers.
CLIFF
We've got to get underway.
An ENGINEERING OFFICER stares at Cliff's leg.
ENGINEERING OFFICER
Jesus, Cliff. You've been hit.
Cliff glances down and sees that blood has soaked his right
pant leg -- he's been shot in the calf. But he shrugs it off
and limps over to the set of gauges that register the steam
pressure. He stares at them as if he's been betrayed.
CLIFF
Goddammit.
ENGINEERING OFFICER
We just need five minutes.
CLIFF
We don't have -KABOOM! Cliff glances out the front window of the bridge
just as the Arizona's forward magazine detonates. The deck
ripples with the force of the blast, and the bridge tilts as
the massive battleship's bow rises twenty feet in the air.
An instant later the white-hot flash of the explosion surges
through the bridge, briefly blinding us.
EXT. ROAD - DAY
The Cadillac barrels down the road -- now escorted by the
motorcycle cop -- until Crosley abruptly stands on his brakes.
He's staring through the windshield, transfixed by something,
and we REVERSE to reveal...
...the iconic image for the first time: towering columns of
smoke rise from Battleship Row as Japanese bombers attack.
A giant mushroom cloud rises from Arizona, followed by a
blast wave racing toward us across the water. It seems
impossible that anyone could survive that explosion.
As Crosley ducks for cover, we go CLOSE on Layton. The massive
fireball is reflected in his glasses, and his expression is
difficult to decipher.
He's horrified, of course. But not surprised.
EXT. SKY - DAY
Two SBDs fly in formation above Barbers Point. Smoke rises
in the distance from Pearl Harbor.

11.
INT. DICKINSON'S SBD - DAY
Dickinson is on the stick. Miller is seated behind him facing
backwards -- he's responsible for both the radio equipment
and operating the .30 caliber Browning tail gun.
As Dickinson squints at the distant smoke, Miller's voice
echoes through the intercom.
MILLER
What is it, sir?
DICKINSON
Looks like Coastal Artillery went
stark mad. Bet you someone's going
to catch hell for it.
A FLASH of metal near the sun catches Dickinson's attention,
and his instincts lead him to yank on the stick. As the SBD
lurches, he shouts into the radio -DICKINSON (CONT'D)
Incoming!
The warning is too late for their wingman, who catches a
full broadside of cannon fire. As his SBD explodes into flame,
two Japanese Zero fighters scream past us.
Dickinson, meanwhile, continues his roll and fires with his
fixed guns. He swears, realizing that he has missed, and
then yells into the intercom -DICKINSON (CONT'D)
Miller. Break radio silence. And get
that damn gun working!
Miller flips the transmit key on his radio.
MILLER
Pearl Harbor under attack by Japanese
aircraft. This is no shit!
And then Miller is slammed into his seat as Dickinson takes
wildly evasive action. He nevertheless manages to pull a
string of ammo from a box and feed it into the Browning.
DICKINSON (V.O.)
On our six!
RAT-TAT-TAT! Miller fires in long bursts, swinging the gun
from side to side, until -BOOM! Their right wing explodes into flame as a round of
cannon fire riddles the SBD. The fucking Zeros are everywhere.
Dickinson yanks on the stick...
...but it's dead. The plane goes into a right spin, and
Dickinson glances at the altimeter. They're just a thousand
feet above the ground.

12.
DICKINSON (CONT'D)
Miller! Bail out!
As Dickinson pushes himself out of the cockpit, he catches a
glimpse of a lifeless Miller in the back seat --- and then Dickinson is tumbling in the sky. He desperately
fumbles with his ripcord, the ground rushing up at him -KABOOM! His abandoned SBD explodes in the field beneath him
just as his parachute catches the air. Dickinson has only a
second or two to brace himself before he slams onto a dirt
road, hard enough that his knees buckle.
He collapses to the ground and lies still for a moment -stunned to be alive -- before rolling over and freeing himself
from the silk parachute.
As Dickinson orients himself, he realizes that guns are firing
nearby. It's a platoon of Marines lined up in formation on a
hilltop a hundred yards away, shooting with their rifles at
the Japanese planes like vestiges from an earlier war.
Their SERGEANT, meanwhile, is jogging down the hill toward
Dickinson. He gives the pilot a long look.
SERGEANT
You all right, sir?
Physically, yes -- by some miracle the total of Dickinson's
wounds is a skinned elbow. But he's hopping mad.
DICKINSON
Get me to Hickam Field.
The sergeant stares at this angry man who just fell from the
sky. All he can think to say is...
SERGEANT
Why?
Dickinson looks at the sergeant as if he's a complete idiot.
DICKINSON
So I can get in another goddamned
plane and get back up there.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - RADIO ROOM - DAY
Two RADIOMEN listen through headphones, frantically
transcribing chatter as a nervous ENSIGN paces behind them.
Best bursts into the room.
BEST
What the hell is going on?
The ensign turns to him, relieved to see a superior officer.

13.
ENSIGN
Pearl is shooting at our guys, sir.
I guess they didn't know that we
were sending a squadron ahead.
BEST
Maybe it isn't Pearl.
The words hang in the air. If it isn't Pearl, then who? Best
glances at one of the RADIOMEN.
BEST (CONT'D)
Call Dickinson.
RADIOMAN
I tried. He isn't responding.
(off Best)
We got a garbled transmission that
he was under attack. And then nothing.
The words land hard on Best. Has his friend been shot down?
What the hell is happening? But he has no time to dwell on
those questions because the other RADIOMAN tears off his
headphones and snaps to attention.
RADIOMAN #2
Sir! Look at this.
He holds out a decoded message. Best snatches it and reads...
"URGENT XX AIR RAID ON PEARL HARBOR XX THIS IS NOT A DRILL."
Best feels the eyes of the other men on him, so he keeps his
face expressionless. He hands the message to the ensign.
BEST
Take this to the admiral.
The ensign starts toward the door -- too slowly for Best. He
conveys the urgency of the situation in a single word.
BEST (CONT'D)
Run.
EXT. PEARL HARBOR - PACIFIC FLEET HQ - DAY
The Cadillac roars up to a large brick building across the
loch from the dry dock. Thick black smoke shrouds everything
as anti-aircraft fire RATTLES the windows.
Layton emerges from the car and dashes into the building.
INT. PACIFIC FLEET HQ - COMMUNICATION'S ROOM - DAY
Layton enters and finds ADMIRAL KIMMEL (commander-in-chief
of the Pacific Fleet) standing in a horrified huddle with
his FLAG OFFICERS. Kimmel immediately fixes on Layton.

14.
ADMIRAL KIMMEL
Here's the man who tried to warn us.
If it's any satisfaction to you, Layton,
you were right and we were wrong.
LAYTON
Sir, it's no satisfaction to me
whatsoever.
The room TREMBLES with an explosion. Kimmel stares out the
window at a fireball from the drydock, clearly in shock. But
he gathers himself and then turns back to Layton.
ADMIRAL KIMMEL
You need to locate the Japanese
carriers. We can't let them do this
and get away scot free.
LAYTON
I know the man who can find them.
INT. PACIFIC FLEET HQ - LOBBY - DAY
The PETTY OFFICER at the desk holds a rifle in nervous hands,
a flak helmet on his head. Layton hurries up to him.
LAYTON
Where's Rochefort?
PETTY OFFICER
On the roof, sir.
Layton stares at him, confused. The roof?
EXT. PACIFIC FLEET HQ - ROOF - DAY
Spent anti-aircraft bullets PING off the tin of the roof in
a steady (and potentially deadly) rain. But the birdlike and
brilliant JOSEPH ROCHEFORT, 40, ignores the danger and
carefully affixes wires to a makeshift antenna.
Layton bursts out of a stairwell and locks on Rochefort. The
camera CIRCLES them as they talk, revealing the devastating
panorama in the background.
LAYTON
What the hell are you doing? We need
to find the Japanese fleet.
ROCHEFORT
That's what I'm trying to do. Those
Army idiots think we're about to get
invaded, so they shut down the phones.
We can't communicate with our radio
direction finder.
Layton quickly does the math.
LAYTON
You're building another one?

15.
As Rochefort shrugs, a flaming chunk of metal THUDS into the
roof. Layton gives Rochefort a look.
LAYTON (CONT'D)
Don't get killed up here. The Navy's
going to need you to win this war.
Rochefort ignores him, once again locked on his work. Layton
nods to himself -- these men understand each other -- and
then ducks back into the building.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
The modest-sized flag bridge is at the top of the carrier's
island, giving it a view of the flight deck. ADMIRAL WILLIAM
"BULL" HALSEY, 62, enters. He's a rugged bowling ball of a
human being who is beloved by his men for his honesty.
Halsey glances at CAPTAIN MILES BROWNING, his operations and
war plans officer.
HALSEY
Pearl found something?
CAPTAIN BROWNING
Yes, sir. Intelligence managed to
get a radio fix on the attacking
fleet. Unfortunately, it's a bilateral
reading. Meaning the Japs are either
at 363 degrees...
Browning points down at the map table, his finger tracing a
line due north of Pearl Harbor on the chart.
CAPTAIN BROWNING (CONT'D)
...or 163 degrees.
Browning traces a second line heading due south. Halsey's
face wrinkles in disgust.
HALSEY
For Christ sake... Pearl is under
attack, and we don't even know if
the bastards are north or south?
Browning is accustomed to tough questions from his admiral.
He taps a point near the southern line, unruffled.
CAPTAIN BROWNING
Army bombers also reported a possible
ship sighting here.
Halsey stares at the spot. Then:
HALSEY
That's where we place our bet. What
do we have left aboard?
CAPTAIN BROCKMAN
Lindsey and his torpedo squadron.

16.
HALSEY
What about dive bombers?
CAPTAIN BROCKMAN
Most of them went into Pearl this
morning, but we've got five left.
The senior pilot is Dick Best. The
XO of Bombing Six.
HALSEY
Good. That kid is full of piss and
vinegar.
(beat)
Launch everything we've got.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - PILOT READY ROOM - DAY
A chalkboard identifies the squadron's planes and their
operational status. Best and his four fellow dive bomber
pilots sit on one side of the room wearing brown leather
jackets. Eighteen torpedo bomber pilots sit on the other,
dressed in olive drab flight suits with ties.
LT. COMMANDER WADE MCCLUSKY, 39, delivers the briefing. He
runs the air wing and is good friends with Best -- probably
because they are both consummate professionals.
MCCLUSKY
We have a possible location on the
Jap fleet, so we're launching a
strike. Lindsey has command.
McClusky looks at LT. EUGENE LINDSEY, 36, who sits in the
front row. Lindsey commands Torpedo Six and is a bit of a
dandy -- his men call him Errol Flynn behind his back.
As Lindsey nods, McClusky traces a line on the giant map.
MCCLUSKY (CONT'D)
Fly a grid on this bearing. If you
make contact, Best and his men will
put down a smokescreen and then the
torpedo bombers will go in.
BEST
The hell with smoke. Let me go after
those carriers with a real bomb.
LINDSEY
Torpedoes sink carriers, not bombs.
And my men need a screen.
Best gives Lindsey a cold look.
BEST
You need a screen because your planes
are slow. And even if you get close
enough, your torpedoes don't work.
Most of the torpedo pilots bristle. But Lindsey shrugs.

17.
LINDSEY
That's a rumor.
BEST
It's a rumor because the damn things
have never even been tested.
(to McClusky)
The Japs are out there killing our
friends. In a sneak attack. Let me
put a 500-pound bomb right down their
goddamned smokestack.
LINDSEY
You have your orders, lieutenant.
Best is about to respond, but McClusky steps forward to quell
the disagreement.
MCCLUSKY
We're all frustrated. But we have to
go by the book today.
Best doesn't like it -- at all -- but he respects McClusky
enough to stand down.
BEST
Yes, sir.
EXT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLIGHT DECK - DAY
Best strides toward his waiting plane. He's intercepted by
his radioman, JAMES MURRAY (25, lanky). Murray has a laconic
North Carolina drawl, but the accent lies -- he's perpetually
a bundle of raw nerves.
MURRAY
Are we going after the Japs, sir?
BEST
Yeah, we're going to smoke 'em to
death.
Best glances at Murray.
BEST (CONT'D)
You look like you're going to puke.
The assessment is correct; Murray scared out of his mind by
the prospect of going out to find the Japanese fleet. But he
can't admit that to his pilot.
MURRAY
I'm all right.
(changing the subject)
Any word from Mr. Dickinson?
BEST
Not yet.

18.
Which means that his friend is likely dead. But Best just
continues toward his plane; he has a job to do.
The deck loudspeaker BLARES:
LOUDSPEAKER (V.O.)
Start engines!
EXT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLIGHT DECK - DAY
One by one the 30-odd planes of the strike force rumble down
the deck. The fighters and SBDs are nimble compared to the
torpedo bombers, which struggle into the air -- slowed even
further by the one-ton torpedo strapped to their belly.
EXT. PACIFIC OCEAN - DAY
The planes are framed by the sunset. The SBDs do lazy halfcircles to keep from outpacing the ponderous torpedo bombers.
INT. BEST'S SBD - DAY
Best scans the horizon, frustration etched in his expression.
Murray's voice echoes through the intercom.
MURRAY
See anything, sir?
BEST
Not even a goddamned whale.
INT. LINDSEY'S TBD - DAY
Lindsey is at the controls with his two CREWMEN behind him.
He peers down at a map in his lap, but the fading sun has
made it hard to decipher anything.
Lindsey takes a deep breath and then speaks into his radio.
LINDSEY
Six baker ten, this is six torpedo
one. Lead us back to Enterprise.
INT. BEST'S SBD - DAY
Best stares at his radio, incredulous. He lifts the receiver
to his mouth and speaks with a clear edge.
BEST
Six torpedo ten, your pilots aren't
trained for a night carrier landing
with live ordinance. Go land at Pearl.
LINDSEY (V.O.)
We can't clear the mountains. Take
us back to Enterprise, lieutenant.
That's a direct order.
Best fumes for a long moment as the plane's engine drones in
the background. He finally toggles the intercom switch.

19.
BEST
Hey, Murray. Do we have a homing
signal on the ZB?
Murray glances down at a black box, which is showing a solid
red light. He shakes his head.
MURRAY
We're too far out.
BEST
Unbelievable.
Best thinks for a moment and then toggles back to the radio.
BEST (CONT'D)
Six torpedo one. I'm dropping my
smoke bombs, turning on my running
lights, and returning to Enterprise.
Follow me if you want.
Best yanks a lever and the plane lurches as the bombs release.
Murray's nervous voice rings through the intercom.
MURRAY (V.O.)
Do you know the way home, sir?
BEST
You better hope so. Because otherwise
we're all going for a swim.
We catch a glimpse of Murray's pale face in the back; he
doesn't like the sound of that at all.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLAG BRIDGE - NIGHT
The RADAR OFFICER peers into his rudimentary set as a smudge
of green lights appears at the edge of the scope.
RADAR OFFICER
Sir! Numerous bogies inbound.
HALSEY
Friendlies?
The question hangs in the air -- the green dots on the scope
reveal nothing. The RADIO OFFICER speaks into his set.
RADIO OFFICER
Incoming aircraft, identify yourself.
Static crackles in response. Tension builds on the bridge:
Have the Japanese found them first? Are they about to suffer
the same fate as Pearl Harbor? Finally -BEST (V.O.)
This is six baker ten. Requesting
night landing.
Everyone on the bridge breathes a deep sigh of relief.

20.
EXT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT
The LANDING SIGNAL OFFICER waves his green wands at the end
of the illuminated flight deck. An SBD expertly catches the
number one arresting wire and slams to a halt.
The SBD taxies to the elevator, and Best swings out of the
cockpit. McClusky emerges from the shadows to meet him.
MCCLUSKY
We got word from Pearl. The Jap fleet
was north, not south.
This is the cherry on the shit sundae for Best.
BEST
Those bastards in intelligence
couldn't find their ass with two
hands and a flashlight.
WHAM! The next plane to land is a torpedo bomber. It hits
the deck so hard that the deck vibrates. Even worse, the
impact detaches the plane's torpedo.
The deadly "fish" skids across the deck toward the ship's
island, a thousand pounds of TNT connected to a percussive
cap. Halsey and his staff are about to be immolated.
At the last moment a lone figure runs out of the darkness
and leaps onto the deadly weapon. This is SLIM TOWNSEND, the
deck officer. He rides the torpedo like a bull, feet working
as brakes, until it finally comes to a stop.
As men rush to Slim's side to secure the torpedo, Best crosses
the deck in a cold fury. He marches up to Lindsey, who is
smoking with a few of his pilots.
Best jabs a finger at him.
BEST (CONT'D)
You get yourself lost, expect me to
bail you out, and now one of your
men almost blows up the damn carrier
because you were too chickenshit to
fly into Pearl.
LINDSEY
I told you. We couldn't clear the -BEST
I know what you told me. But I bet
you heard that Pearl is firing at
everything in sight and were worried
about your own ass.
LINDSEY
Do I have to remind you that I'm
your superior officer?

21.
BEST
Don't hide behind your rank. At least
pretend to be a goddamned man.
Lindsey feels the eyes of his fellow pilots and feels
obligated to step toward Best. But before it can escalate
into a fight, McClusky runs up and shoves them apart.
MCCLUSKY
Jesus Christ! We're all frustrated.
But save it for the Japs.
Best stares past McClusky at Lindsey. Still seething.
BEST
We're at war now, Lindsey. Get your
shit together.
And then Best turns on his heel and strides away.
INT. PEARL HARBOR - KIMMEL'S OFFICE - NIGHT
Admiral Kimmel sits at his desk, his head in his hands. Layton
enters and closes the door behind him.
LAYTON
The Japanese are attacking on all
fronts. Singapore, the Philippines,
Guam, Thailand...
No response from Kimmel. Layton forces himself to continue.
LAYTON (CONT'D)
We captured a radio log from a downed
Japanese plane. They hit us with all
six of their fleet carriers.
Kimmel looks up at Layton as if seeing him for the first
time. He picks up a jagged piece of metal from the desk and
holds it up to the light.
ADMIRAL KIMMEL
A spent .50 cal. It crashed through
the window this afternoon and hit me
square in the chest. Left a bruise.
(beat)
I wish it had killed me.
Layton has no idea what to do with this confession. He
swallows hard. Finally -ADMIRAL KIMMEL (CONT'D)
You're the best intelligence officer
I've ever known, Layton. They'll
probably burn you for this too, but
if they don't... swear to me that
you will make the next man in this
chair listen to you. Because this
can never happen again.

22.
The words land hard on Layton; he already feels the immense
weight of this failure. He draws himself up in a salute.
LAYTON
Yes, sir.
EXT. PEARL HARBOR - DAY (TWILIGHT)
The Enterprise enters the main channel. Her prow cuts through
water black with bunker oil, and smoke from the still-burning
wreckage shrouds everything.
Makeshift AA emplacements line the banks on either side of
the channel. A SOLDIER shouts from the shore.
SOLDIER (O.S.)
You better get the hell out of here
or the Japs will nail you too!
The words carry clearly across the water to Best and
McClusky, who are standing amid a group of men silently taking
in the devastation. Best is locked on the still-burning
Arizona, eyes hollow. McClusky glances at him.
MCCLUSKY
Think Cliff was aboard?
BEST
I don't know. He liked to sleep at
home when he was in port.
MCCLUSKY
You were roommates at Annapolis?
BEST
Three years.
And now he might be dead -- along with thousands of other
good men. The duo stands in silence for a long moment. And
then Best flicks his head up at the bridge behind them.
BEST (CONT'D)
Look at the old man.
Halsey stands outside on the flying bridge, his jaw clenching
in a furious rhythm as he takes in the scene. He finally
turns to his flag officers, speaking to nobody in particular.
HALSEY
I promise you... by the time we're
through with them, the Japanese
language will be spoken only in hell.
EXT. NAVAL STATION PEARL HARBOR - WHARF - NIGHT
The still-burning Arizona casts a red glow on the scene as
an oil tanker pumps fuel into the berthed Enterprise.
Best strides down the gangway onto the wharf. When he sees
Dickinson waiting at the bottom, Best half-smiles with relief.

23.
But then he straps on a poker face.
BEST
I heard that you jumped out of a
perfectly good plane.
DICKINSON
It was on fire. And the controls
were dead.
BEST
I would have landed it.
(beat)
Where's Miller?
Dickinson's expression answers him. Best's face falls.
BEST (CONT'D)
Ah, hell.
They share a moment of pained silence for their fallen
comrade. And then Dickinson points down the wharf.
DICKINSON
Ann is over there.
EXT. NAVAL STATION PEARL HARBOR - WHARF - NIGHT
Civilians stand behind a waist-high metal fence, overseen by
MPs. Best approaches from the other side, eyes searching the
crowd, until he locks eyes with ANN BEST, 28. She's a sharptongued firecracker who shares his Jersey accent.
They rush to each other and embrace over the fence, holding
each other tightly. She whispers in his ear.
ANN
Come home tonight.
He pulls back, apologetic.
BEST
I wish. But we sail as soon as we're
refueled. They don't want us in port
until they're sure the Japs are gone.
ANN
I saw the first attack. Before I
realized what was happening and got
Barb down in the cellar. Dive bombers
from the north.
BEST
Were they any good?
ANN
Not bad. But they didn't dive as
steeply as your squadron.
Best shakes his head, incredulous.

24.
BEST
You're one hell of a Navy wife. Bombs
falling and you keep your head.
(beat)
Any word from Cliff?
ANN
He was on duty. We checked all of
the hospitals, but nothing yet.
The news is like a punch into Best's gut -- he knows that
Cliff is likely dead. In the wake of that revelation the
full weight of this awful day abruptly lands on him.
BEST
Goddammit!
Ann feels the anger and pain and frustration behind that one
ferocious word, and she takes her husband's hand. Her touch
settles him, and Best takes a slow breath. Finally -BEST (CONT'D)
How's Sarah holding up?
ANN
You know Sarah. Tough as nails. But...
Yeah. They're silent for a moment, imagining themselves in
Sarah's shoes. Best finally looks at her.
BEST
I want you and Barb to go back to
your parents' place in Jersey.
ANN
No.
Best blinks, caught off-balance by her flat denial.
BEST
It isn't safe here.
ANN
Everyone is saying this will be a
long war, and I refuse to go years
without seeing you. And neither will
your daughter.
BEST
But what if -She cuts him off, tone firm.
ANN
You're not shipping me off to Jersey.
And that's final.
Best stares at his wife, simultaneously frustrated by her
obstinacy and impressed by her resolve. He finally nods.

25.
BEST
Okay.
INT. UNITED STATES CAPITAL BUILDING - HOUSE CHAMBER - DAY
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT addresses a joint session of Congress.
His nasally voice is braced with a steely resolve.
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT
Yesterday, December 7, 1941 -- a
date which will live in infamy -the United States of America was
suddenly and deliberately attacked
by the naval and air forces of Japan.
EXT. TOKYO - ASAKUSA DISTRICT - DAY
Traditional geisha houses line the street. Incongruously, a
broadcast of Roosevelt's speech echoes from an open window.
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT (V.O.)
The United States was at peace with
that nation and still in conversation
with its government for the
maintenance of peace in the Pacific.
INT. GEISHA HOUSE - PRIVATE ROOM - DAY
Yamamoto, now 56, sits at a tea table. He is naked except
for a towel, revealing that he is in excellent shape for a
man his age. A radio broadcasts Roosevelt's words.
A GEISHA sits across from Yamamoto, wearing a silk kimono.
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT (V.O.)
No matter how long it may take us to
overcome this premeditated invasion -CLICK! Yamamoto twists the volume control of the radio. The
geisha gives him a curious look.
GEISHA
What was the gaijin saying?
YAMAMOTO
Our ambassador in Washington failed to
deliver our declaration of war on time.
So the Americans think that Pearl Harbor
was a sneak attack.
GEISHA
What does that mean?
Yamamoto stands, his expression grim.
YAMAMOTO
It means that we have awakened a
sleeping giant and filled him with
terrible resolve.

26.
EXT. IMPERIAL GENERAL HEADQUARTERS - DAY
The brick and stone building looks as if it should be in
London. Yamamoto emerges from his staff car, now resplendent
in his dress uniform.
REAR ADMIRAL TAMON YAMAGUCHI, 49, a fiery and brilliant rising
star in the Imperial Navy, strides up to meet him. Yamamoto
is Tamon's mentor, and the two men share an understanding of
American culture -- Tamon studied at Princeton. But Tamon
retains the bluntness of a soldier.
YAMAMOTO
Did you enjoy your visit to Hawaii?
TAMON
I told Nagumo that we needed to
destroy the fuel tanks. But he refused
to launch a third strike.
YAMAMOTO
That was a devastating mistake. It
would have taken the Americans a
year to resume operations at Pearl.
TAMON
When are you going to remove Nagumo
from command?
YAMAMOTO
How can I remove him? Nagano sunk
the American battleships. Everyone
thinks that he's a hero.
TAMON
Someday that old fool will make an
even bigger mistake.
Yamamoto flicks his head at the General Headquarters.
YAMAMOTO
None of that talk inside. We must
have a united front against the Army.
Tamon gives him a look.
TAMON
I'm not Nagumo. You don't have to
instruct me in the obvious.
INT. IMPERIAL GENERAL HQ - SUPREME COUNCIL HALL - DAY
Two long tables face each other in the imposing room. Naval
officers, marked by their blue uniforms, line one side. Army
officers, wearing brown, are on the other.
PRIME MINISTER TOJO sits at a dais between them, wearing the
brown of the Army. His cold eyes are locked on Yamamoto, who
sits at the end of the naval table next to Tamon.

27.
YAMAMOTO
Pearl Harbor was a great victory. But
if we give them time, the Americans
will overrun us. We therefore must
land the knockout blow by destroying
the rest of the American fleet.
Tojo stares at Yamamoto, calculating. Finally -TOJO
Our priority must be seizing the
resources that we need, which is a
job for the Army. The Navy's job is
to get us there and back.
Yamamoto disagrees with this theory down to the very core of
his soul. But he forces himself to stand and salute.
YAMAMOTO
So it shall be.
INT. STAFF CAR - DAY
Yamamoto and Tamon ride in the back of a large sedan. Tamon
shakes his head, simmering.
TAMON
The Army got us into this war, and
now they expect us to just ferry
them around?
Yamamoto shrugs, resigned to the situation.
YAMAMOTO
For now. But circumstances will change.
Which is why I want you to start drawing
up plans for the operation we discussed.
Tamon's eyes light up.
TAMON
Midway.
Yamamoto nods. The word hangs in the air as he stares out
the window, once again lost in thought.
INT. WHITE HOUSE - OVAL OFFICE - DAY
President Roosevelt signs a formal document at the desk, an
array of politicians behind him. Bulbs flash as mob of
reporters and photographers jockey for prime position. As
Roosevelt lifts his pen, SENATOR CONNALLY glances down at
the watch that he is holding in his hand.
SENATOR CONNALLY
As of 3:05 PM on December 11, 1941,
the United States is officially at
war with Germany.

28.
Roosevelt and Connally awkwardly hold their pose as another
round of bulbs pop. A REPORTER pushes his way forward to the
front of the scrum.
REPORTER
Mr. President! The Japs have us on
the run, and people are worried that
the West Coast is at risk. How is
the Navy going to keep us safe?
The panic in the reporter's voice infects most of the room.
But not Roosevelt. He stares at the reporter.
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT
It's going to require strong
leadership from Pearl. An admiral
who can rebuild morale.
REPORTER
Do you have a candidate in mind?
Roosevelt just smiles to himself, revealing nothing.
EXT. WASHINGTON, DC - NATIONAL MALL - DAY
A black sedan pulls up in front of the utilitarian Main Navy
Building. ADMIRAL CHESTER NIMITZ, 59, emerges wearing his
dress uniform. He is tall with patrician features and piercing
blue eyes that accurately forecast his ferocious intelligence.
INT. MAIN NAVY BUILDING - MAIN OFFICE - DAY
A SECRETARY ushers Nimitz through a bustling main office.
She opens a door marked: "Admiral Ernest King, COMINCH."
INT. MAIN NAVY BUILDING - KING'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
ADMIRAL KING, 63, stands with his back to us, clutching a
phone. The enormous office contains just a card table and
two folding chairs. The secretary glances at Nimitz.
SECRETARY
Don't mind the office, Admiral. It's
a work in progress.
NIMITZ
Like our fleet.
The secretary smiles and exits, closing the door behind her.
King growls into the phone -- as Roosevelt himself once said,
"he's a man who shaves with a blowtorch."
ADMIRAL KING
I need an answer today, dammit.
The phone slams back onto its receiver. King turns toward
Nimitz, who greets him with a salute.

29.
NIMITZ
Congratulations, sir. You were the
right choice for commander-in-chief
of the Navy.
ADMIRAL KING
When they get in trouble, they send
for the sons of bitches.
(beat)
Sorry about the Arizona. She was
your flagship, wasn't she?
NIMITZ
Yes. A lot of good men on that ship.
We hear the pain in Nimitz's tone: he's lost countless
friends. King waves at the folding chairs. As they sit -ADMIRAL KING
The situation in the Pacific is even
worse than has been reported. We
have three carriers, the Japs have
ten. We have zero functional
battleships, they have nine. They
have more cruisers, more bombers,
more fighters, and much of their
equipment is more modern.
NIMITZ
Can we shift resources from the
Atlantic?
ADMIRAL KING
The President has decided that Germany
must be the priority of the war
effort. If England and Russia fall...
The enormity of the challenge weighs on both men. Finally -ADMIRAL KING (CONT'D)
It will take at least a year to build
new ships and train more men. In the
meantime we'll just have to count on
the boys we have to hold the line.
NIMITZ
I don't envy the new commander.
King stares at him, flat. Nimitz does the math.
NIMITZ (CONT'D)
It's me, isn't it?
ADMIRAL KING
The President asked for you himself.
He said that you should get the hell
out to Pearl and stay there until
our ships sail into Tokyo Bay.
(MORE)

30.
ADMIRAL KING (CONT'D)
(beat)
Welcome to the most difficult job in
the world.
We go CLOSE on Nimitz as he processes the words. This is the
greatest opportunity -- and responsibility -- of his life.
EXT. PEARL HARBOR - DAY
The crumpled remains of the Arizona jut out of the water,
surrounded by a vast oil slick. A grim crew of sailors on
the deck are carefully removing incinerated human remains
and placing them into canvas bags.
EXT. PEARL HARBOR - DAY
A group has gathered on the nearby shore of the harbor for a
funeral. A large photo of an officer in his white dress
uniform reveals that the honoree is Cliff Janz.
Cliff's wife SARAH, 28, lays a wreath of flowers in the water.
She stares at the wreck of the Arizona -- just a few hundred
yards away -- as a bugler PLAYS "Taps."
Behind Sarah is a row of Naval officers in their dress
uniforms along with their wives and families. Best holds
hands with Ann, his jaw working furiously as he tries to
contain his grief.
Sarah's two young sons are next to Cliff's photo, doing their
best to be brave. But one begins to cry, and Ann steps forward
and puts an arm around him.
We PAN to reveal that several other ceremonies are being
conducted further down the shore.
EXT. PEARL HARBOR - PARKING LOT - DAY
Best, Ann and Sarah stand next to a Ford V-8 as Sarah's two
sons wait patiently in the back seat.
Sarah's eyes flicker to the wreck of the Arizona.
SARAH
It's just so empty. We don't even
have a body to bury.
Best can't find the words to respond. Ann finally says...
ANN
I know.
Sarah locks on Best.
SARAH
Cliff wanted to be a pilot like you,
but I talked him out of it. I said
it was too dangerous.

31.
Sarah shakes her head, caught by the cruel irony, and then
opens her car door.
SARAH (CONT'D)
I'll see you at the next funeral. I
think we have two more today and
three tomorrow.
ANN
You don't have to go.
Sarah sets her jaw, finding some bastion of inner strength.
SARAH
Yes I do. We're family.
Ann and Best just nod; they know exactly what Sarah means.
The Navy takes care of its own.
INT. SMITH'S UNION BAR (HONOLULU) - DAY
Christmas decorations incongruously hang amid military
memorabilia and tiki kitsch. Naval officers in their dress
uniforms pack the narrow space from end-to-end. The photo of
Cliff hangs in a position of honor over the bar.
Best, Dickinson and McClusky huddle in a corner, obviously
several drinks deep. McClusky finishes his beer. Then:
MCCLUSKY
Did you hear? Wake Island fell.
Best shakes his head, morose.
BEST
Four hundred and fifty Marines hold
out against a whole Jap invasion
force for fifteen days and the Navy
just leaves them there to die.
MCCLUSKY
Washington was probably worried about
losing the rest of the fleet.
BEST
We can't win this war if they don't
let us fight.
DING! The bell behind the bar rings. JIMMY THATCH, 36, stands
on a chair to deliver a toast. He's an icy-cool fighter pilot
with a distinctive Arkansas drawl.
THATCH
I just want to say that Cliff Janz
was one of the finest bastards I've
ever met. I could talk about the man
for an hour, but I think that's a
job for one of you boys who went to
the Academy with him.

32.
Heads swivel, searching for a candidate. Best turns to
Dickinson, but Dickinson waves him off, eyes already wet. He
chokes out the words:
DICKINSON
I can't.
And so Best clambers onto the bar and turns to the sea of
faces. Best hates public speaking, but he'll be damned if
nobody eulogizes his friend. Best gestures at Thatch.
BEST
Well, hell... I can't let some fighter
jockey speak for Cliff. Especially
one not good enough to fly from
Enterprise.
Thatch smiles at the jab as men from other ships goodnaturedly boo. Best holds up his hands for silence.
BEST (CONT'D)
Summer after plebe year me and Cliff
went up to visit his uncle on the
Great Lakes. It's the peak of
Prohibition, and we decide to sail to
Canada in the dead of night to buy
some beer. We get the beer all right,
but on our way back -- right before
the sun comes up -- the wind dies.
Best pauses for a moment, lost in the memory.
BEST (CONT'D)
There we are, floating in the middle
of the lake, just waiting for the
Border Patrol to show up. I say we
should ditch the booze. But Cliff
says, 'Hell no. We'll drink it all.'
When those officers found us, we
were rolling.
The group hoots in appreciation. But Best's expression changes
like a dark cloud passing in front of the sun.
BEST (CONT'D)
Cliff loved to laugh -- and he never
seemed to break a sweat -- but if
you dug deep there was something
else. I don't know what happened
aboard the Arizona, but I guarantee
Cliff went down fighting.
(beat)
Cliff was my roommate, my best man,
the godfather to my daughter. I
thought that someday we'd be drinking
beer on a porch and telling lies
about what we did in the big war.

33.
For a painful moment Best gets lost in his emotions. But
then he grabs a shot glass from the bar and holds it up.
BEST (CONT'D)
To Cliff! May you get to Heaven before
the Devil knows you're dead.
The group roars, the sound deafening in the small bar, and
then everyone downs their shots.
EXT. NAVAL STATION PEARL HARBOR - WHARF - DAY
Best, McClusky and Dickinson weave down the wharf toward the
looming shape of the Enterprise, their faces flushed with
alcohol. Dickinson pauses, eyes locked on something.
DICKINSON
Shit. Shore patrol.
A small convoy of jeeps is streaking toward them, flags flying
from the hoods. Best squints.
BEST
Nah, that's an Admiral's flag. I bet
it's the new commander.
DICKINSON
Who do you think it is?
BEST
I don't care if it's Gengis Khan if
he'll let us fight.
The jeeps speed closer. A figure with shock of white hair is
sitting ramrod straight in the back of the lead vehicle.
MCCLUSKY
Looks like Nimitz.
The men nod appreciatively; this is good news.
BEST
At least they sent the A-team.
(shouting)
Hey, Nimitz! Let us at those Japs!
ANGLE ON: NIMITZ
The words carry over the Jeep's engine. As Nimitz turns his
head toward the three officers walking on the wharf, a
horrified STAFF OFFICER leans toward his new commander.
STAFF OFFICER
Sorry, sir. Do you want me to go get
their names?
Nimitz shakes his head, a thin smile on his face.

34.
NIMITZ
We've taken a hell of a wallop. I'm
glad that at least some of the boys
still want to fight.
INT. MAIN NAVY BUILDING - NIMITZ'S OFFICE - DAY
A giant map of the Pacific Theater dominates one wall. Nimitz
sits behind a large desk, flipping through a stack of files.
Layton enters and gives him a stiff salute.
LAYTON
Welcome to Pearl, sir. I'm Lieutenant
Commander Layton.
Nimitz glances up from his work.
NIMITZ
I know who you are.
LAYTON
Then you'll understand my request. I
wish to be reassigned to a destroyer.
NIMITZ
You can kill more Japs here with me
than you'll ever kill on a destroyer.
Layton blinks. He wasn't expecting that response.
LAYTON
You want me on your staff?
NIMITZ
Didn't you try to warn my predecessor
about the impending attack?
LAYTON
Not exactly. I said that we had lost
track of the enemy carriers and needed
to be prepared.
NIMITZ
But Admiral Kimmel didn't take you
seriously because Washington disagreed.
LAYTON
I should have pushed harder.
NIMITZ
A lesson, I assume, that you have
taken to heart.
LAYTON
Sir, I'm the intelligence officer
responsible for overseeing the greatest
intelligence failure in American
history. It will look bad if you keep
me.

35.
Nimitz gives Layton a long look. Then:
NIMITZ
Close the door.
Layton complies. Nimitz stands and comes around the desk.
NIMITZ (CONT'D)
Morale is low -- and for good reason.
The Philippines are soon to fall, and
the Japanese are advancing on all
fronts at a terrifying pace. Even
worse, meaningful reinforcements won't
arrive for at least another year. I
nevertheless believe that we can hold
the line. I know the fighting spirit
of our men, and I have faith in them.
(beat)
But I also need to know that they
have faith in themselves.
Layton chews over the words for a long moment; he understands
exactly what Nimitz is asking him. Finally -LAYTON
I knew what the Japanese were going
to do, but I didn't push hard enough.
I won't make that mistake again.
Nimitz nods, the question settled.
NIMITZ
Then you will be my Admiral Yamamoto.
Get in his head, tell me what he's
going to do next.
Nimitz walks over to the giant map, Layton trailing him.
NIMITZ (CONT'D)
Here's my first assignment. We need
to throw a punch. Not just for morale,
but so that the Japanese know what
it feels like to be hit.
Nimitz's finger circles a desolate cluster of islands squarely
in the center of the Pacific.
NIMITZ (CONT'D)
I'm sending Halsey and the Enterprise
to hit the Marshall Islands. But I
need to know that they aren't walking
into a trap.
Layton starts toward the door; he understands the assignment.
LAYTON
I'll locate the enemy carriers.

36.
EXT. USS ENTERPRISE - NIGHT
The great ship churns through the Pacific, leaving a
translucent green wake behind her.
SUPER: "MARSHALL ISLANDS - FEBRUARY 1, 1942. 0400."
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - PILOT READY ROOM - NIGHT
McClusky stands at the front of the room, delivering the
briefing to the assembled pilots.
MCCLUSKY
The target is Roi Island. Our
submarines have reported shipping
traffic and a military airfield.
Although we have the advantage of
surprise, we don't know exactly what
we're facing. So hit them as hard as
possible and then get the hell out.
BEST
What about the enemy carriers?
MCCLUSKY
Intelligence says they're two thousand
miles away.
Best raises an eyebrow.
BEST
The same group of geniuses who blew
Pearl Harbor?
MCCLUSKY
Like I said... be prepared for
anything.
EXT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT
Moonlight illuminates the rows of tightly-packed planes.
Best strides up to his SBD where Murray waits, practically
vibrating with nervous energy.
MURRAY
Morning, sir. What's the plan?
BEST
The other squadrons will hit first.
We'll go in last to clean up the
remaining targets.
MURRAY
Meaning the Japs are going to be
ready for us.
(Best shrugs)
What if we're shot down?
Murray is clearly looking for reassurance from his pilot.
Best jerks a finger at the SBD's twin Brownings.

37.
BEST
I'm not going to be a POW, so your
job is to get those .30 cals to me.
We'll put our backs into a sand dune
and keep shooting until they have to
kill us to get the damn guns.
Murray's knees weaken -- this is not the morale boost he
needed. But Best just swings up into the cockpit, oblivious.
INT. LINDSEY'S TBD - DAY (DAWN)
Lindsey flies low, the waves just fifty feet beneath the
belly of his plane. His eyes are locked on a dozen ships
tightly clustered in a narrow anchorage.
LINDSEY
(into radio)
I've got the heavy cruiser in my
sights. Pick a target and get close
enough to make them count.
Tracers abruptly streak out toward the planes from either
side of the anchorage. Lindsey yanks a lever...
...and his TBD lurches as the one-ton torpedo splashes into
the water below. Lindsey immediately banks away from the
gunfire. The torpedo, meanwhile, bubbles toward -EXT. JAPANESE FREIGHTER - DAY (DAWN)
Panicked sailors shout in Japanese on the deck of the lightlyarmed ship. The engines rumble to a start as men furiously
work to slip the anchor, but the ship remains a sitting duck.
At the last moment the men brace for impact -THUD! The torpedo slams into the hull and breaks in half.
The stunned sailors pick themselves off the deck and glance
over the side where the broken pieces of the weapon bob as
innocently as buoys.
EXT. ROI AIRFIELD - DAY (DAWN)
The rising sun on the horizon matches the Japanese flag flying
over the base. A siren BLARES a warning as a line of Type 96
fighters hurtle themselves into the air.
At the last moment we catch a glimpse of a diving aircraft -it's an SBD. Bombs drop from the wings.
INT. DICKINSON'S SBD - DAY
Dickinson stares at a series of distant explosions through a
pair of binoculars. The sprawling archipelago of the Marshall
Islands is visible below him, partially concealed by clouds.
DICKINSON
Looks like our boys on Roi poked a
hornet's nest.

38.
Dickinson swings the binoculars. A fast-moving cloud passes
ahead of him, revealing another Japanese airfield in the
center of a large island. Dozens of planes line the runway.
DICKINSON (CONT'D)
Oh, shit.
Dickinson fumbles to toggle the switch on his radio.
DICKINSON (CONT'D)
We've got a problem. I have eyes on
a second enemy airfield.
INT. BEST'S SBD - DAY
Best flies above a cloud, the five other planes of his
scouting squadron trailing off his right wing.
DICKINSON (V.O.)
I'm counting maybe thirty bombers.
And heavy fighter cover.
BEST
Copy that.
(he flips the channel)
You hear that, boys? If we don't
knock out that airfield, they'll go
after Enterprise. And I want a place
to land when this is over.
Best shoves his throttle forward.
BEST (CONT'D)
Stay on my wing.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
Reports pour in from the radio as Captain Browning marks the
estimated positions of the various air groups on the map.
Halsey enters and locks on Browning.
HALSEY
What have we got?
CAPTAIN BROWNING
The Roi airfield is out of commission.
Our torpedo bombers are going after
some ships in the harbor.
(beat)
But there's another major airfield
on Taroa. At least thirty bombers.
Halsey blanches. This is not good news.
HALSEY
Can we hit it?
CAPTAIN BROWNING
Best and his scouts are en route.
But they've got no fighter cover.

39.
Halsey's expression is clear: that's nowhere near enough
planes to do the job.
INT. BEST'S SBD - DAY
Taroa Island is quickly approaching. Metal glints off the
left wingtip of Best's SBD, catching Murray's attention. He
frantically shouts into his intercom.
MURRAY
Enemy fighters, sir. Nine o'clock.
BEST
(into radio)
We got company. Start your runs.
Best shoves the throttle forward and then drops the SBD's
nose. As the plane accelerates, flak bursts in the sky ahead
of them. The percussion wave rattles the airframe.
Best ignores the flak and rolls the SBD onto its back. An
instant later they're plummeting downwards at the plane's
terminal velocity -- almost three hundred miles an hour.
Murray clutches the handles in the back seat, floating against
his harness as he goes weightless. His panicked eyes are
focused on the altimeter, which is spinning downward.
Ten thousand feet... eight thousand feet...
Best peers into the three-powered telescope above the
instrument panel, one hand on the stick and the other on the
bomb release. Murray's voice echoes in his ear.
MURRAY (V.O.)
Three thousand... two thousand...
Best yanks the bomb release, and the plane lurches as five
hundred pounds fall away. He pulls the stick --- and is slammed back into his seat as the immense weight
of six Gs slam into his torso.
EXT. TAROA AIRFIELD - DAY
An anti-aircraft emplacement spits shells into the face of
Best's oncoming SBD. The air SCREAMS as the plane pulls out
of its dive, just a hundred feet off the ground.
BOOM! The largest hanger explodes as Best's bomb detonates,
shredding a dozen Japanese bombers.
INT. BEST'S SBD - DAY
Best works the stick, blinking the haze from his eyes. A
fighter appears in the windscreen, and Best steers straight
at it. He lines up his gunsight and depresses the trigger --

40.
RAT-TAT-TAT! The SBD vibrates with the shots. The muzzle of
the Japanese plane is also flashing, and we WHIP PAN as it
passes us at 500 miles an hour.
Best glances over his shoulder and sees black smoke burst
from the enemy fighter's wing. But he has no time to celebrate
because two other fighters are closing from six o'clock.
BEST
Get those bastards off me.
Murray opens fire as Best weaves and bobs, trying to stay
out of their gunsights. But the fighters keep closing until -THUD! THUD! Bullets slam into the SBD. Murray instinctively
drops the guns and takes cover.
BEST (CONT'D)
Keep firing, dammit!
It takes an enormous effort, but Murray forces himself to
return to the guns. As they chatter back into action, the
second enemy fighter begins its pass...
...but Best pulls back on the stick and the SBD rises into a
massive cumulus cloud. Suddenly, the world is white. Murray
nervously peers from side to side until --- they pop back out into the brilliant blue. Murray locks
on an object off the right wing.
MURRAY
Bogey! Three o'clock.
The SBD ducks back into the clouds. Ten claustrophobic seconds
pass. And then they emerge back into the sunlight...
Murray pans from side to side. Nothing. But just as he
breathes a sigh of relief, he notices a plume spewing from
their right wing.
MURRAY (CONT'D)
(shouting)
Mr. Best, we're on fire!
Best turns to look. And then he shakes his head.
BEST
Damn it, Murray, that's just gasoline.
Don't scare me like that again.
Murray's face says, just gasoline? And then he sinks back
into his seat, utterly drained from his baptism by fire.
EXT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLIGHT DECK - DAY
Best's SBD taxies to a halt. Dickinson is waiting for Best
as he emerges from the cockpit.

41.
BEST
We got most of those bombers. But
not all of 'em.
Dickinson gives the damaged wing a dry glance.
DICKINSON
Looks like they almost got you.
Best fingers one of the holes made by the Japanese rounds
and then shrugs, unfazed.
BEST
Not enough lead.
Murray, on the other hand, gives the damage a horrified look
as he registers exactly how close they came to the edge.
Dickinson's radioman, BRUNO GAIDO, 24, sidles up to him.
Bruno is short with a heavy Long Island accent.
BRUNO
You're lucky to fly with Best.
MURRAY
Want to trade?
BRUNO
What? Too much excitement for you?
MURRAY
Yeah. He's trying to win the war all
by himself.
Bruno is about to respond, but an air raid siren abruptly
BLARES. Best and Dickinson share a glance.
DICKINSON
That can't be good.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
Halsey paces behind the radar officer, who is staring into
his scope like a crystal ball.
RADAR OFFICER
We have multiple bogies. About fifteen
miles out and closing fast.
RADIO OFFICER
Fighting Six en route to intercept.
A burst of STATIC from the radio. Then -RADIO (V.O.)
This is Six Foxtrot One. We have
visual on five twin-engine bombers.
Stand by to intercept.
Ten seconds of silence. Tension swells on the bridge. And
then an explosion of noise from the radio.

42.
RADIO (V.O.) (CONT'D)
Guns jammed! Guns jammed!
(another voice)
Dammit to hell. Me too.
(the first voice)
Enterprise, this is Six Foxtrot One.
Intercept failed.
Everyone looks to Halsey. He stands ramrod straight, seemingly
unfazed by the news.
HALSEY
We'll do it the old fashioned way.
Fire with everything we've got.
EXT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLIGHT DECK - DAY
As the gun emplacements on either side of the deck swing
into action, the ships escorting the Enterprise also open
fire. Clouds of flak burst off the stern in an ominous storm.
Dickinson and Best remain standing on the deck, watching
with a professional detachment as five Japanese Type 96
("Nell") bombers race toward the carrier.
The flak is bursting far behind the incoming aircraft, and
Dickinson shakes his head, frustrated.
DICKINSON
Goddamned gunners... don't they know
they've gotta lead those planes?
BEST
They're too excited. They've never
fired at a live target before.
(beat)
Might as well be using water pistols.
The Nells are now just a thousand yards away -- close enough
to see their bomb bay doors opening.
BEST (CONT'D)
Brace for impact.
The men crouch against the deck as bombs fall from the planes.
The Japanese have the Enterprise dead to rights...
...but the deck lurches as the helmsman swings the wheel.
This is a twenty-thousand ton ship moving at thirty knots,
but she is nevertheless surprisingly agile.
Best stares up at the bombs, calculating. The first ones
slam into the water a hundred yards to starboard.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - ENGINE ROOM - DAY
Steam hisses as the giant turbines whirl. A giant BOSUN
bellows amid the noise.

43.
BOSUN
Flank speed!
THUD! THUD! The force of the bombs detonating in the water
slams into the hull like a giant hammer.
EXT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
The final bomb explodes just fifty feet off the starboard
bow, showering the deck with water. Halsey watches the bombers
as they pass over the ship and then turns to his officers.
HALSEY
Tell the helmsmen that was damn good
steering.
Browning points out the window.
CAPTAIN BROWNING
It isn't over.
Four of the bombers are streaking away from the carrier, but
one is turning around and coming back.
EXT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLIGHT DECK - DAY
Best and Dickinson stare at the incoming bomber. It's rapidly
dropping altitude, nose pointed at the ship.
DICKINSON
What the hell is he doing?
BEST
Turning himself into a bomb.
The bomber is approaching directly from the stern, and most
of the Enterprise's AA guns are therefore unable to train on
it. Best helplessly watches the bomber, doing the math, until
a lone figure dashes across the deck.
It's Bruno Gaido. He runs to the aftmost parked SBD, leaps
into the rear seat, and racks the .30 cals. An instant later
he opens fire in the face of the oncoming bomber.
The Japanese pilot adjusts his course so that he's coming
straight toward Bruno. It's an old-fashioned duel: mano a
mano. Bruno keeps firing, unflinching, until --- the bomber's wing abruptly bursts into flame. But the
Japanese pilot ignores it and fights to hold his course.
Best and Dickinson watch in horror as the bomber's wing slices
through Bruno's SBD -- cutting it in half -- before the
Japanese plane skids over the deck and slams into the ocean.
The rear half of the SBD does a 360, sliding with a screech
toward the sea, but it miraculously grinds to a halt just
feet from the edge of the deck.

44.
RAT-TAT-TAT! The .30 cals are still firing. Bruno stands on
his tiptoes and hammers more bullets into the sinking plane.
When it finally disappears beneath the waves, he calmly flips
the safety on the .30 cals and then swings out onto the deck.
Dickinson and Best are rushing up to the plane along with
the fire crew. As they spray the SBD with water, Dickinson
stares at Bruno and shakes his head, incredulous.
DICKINSON
Damn, Bruno.
Bruno just shrugs.
BRUNO
Ain't they paying us to kill Japs?
Before Dickinson can reply, a breathless ENSIGN runs up to
the group. He points at Bruno.
ENSIGN
Admiral Halsey wants to see you on
the bridge.
Bruno blanches. He might have had no qualms about facing
down a Japanese bomber, but being called up to the bridge is
a whole different ballgame.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
The ensign enters, Bruno warily trailing behind him. Halsey
turns away from a chart and locks on Bruno.
HALSEY
That's the bravest damn thing I've
ever seen. What's your name, son?
Bruno draws himself up in his best salute.
BRUNO
Bruno Gaido, sir. Aviation Machinist's
Mate Third Class.
HALSEY
Well, Bruno... you are now an Aviation
Machinist's Mate First Class.
As Bruno breaks into a smile, Browning catches Halsey's eye.
CAPTAIN BROWNING
Admiral, don't you think it's about
time we got the hell out of here?
HALSEY
I was thinking the same thing myself.
Halsey turns to the radioman.

45.
HALSEY (CONT'D)
Signal the fleet. Tell them it's
time to haul ass with Halsey.
As the radioman moves to comply, Big Band music incongruously
begins to PLAY in the background.
CUT TO:
EXT. ROYAL HAWAIIAN HOTEL - ESTABLISHING - NIGHT
The sprawling compound, known from its paint color as the
"Pink Palace," overlooks Waikiki Beach. Palm trees sway in
the breeze -- it feels a million miles away from the war.
EXT. ROYAL HAWAIIAN HOTEL - MAIN ENTRANCE - NIGHT
The Navy has taken over the hotel. Officers in uniform stream
in the front door, along with young women wearing USO pins.
A well-worn Ford parks, and Best gets out of the car. He
holds the door open for Ann. As she emerges, she gives a
passing gaggle of USO women a dry look.
ANN
Are you sure that you want your wife
flying wingman for you tonight?
BEST
Nobody told me there were going to be
USO girls. So if you wouldn't mind
letting me do a quick lap by myself...
Ann gives his arm a condescending pat.
ANN
That's cute. But we both know you
can barely handle the woman you have.
Best smiles and then takes Ann's arm and leads her toward
the hotel's entrance.
INT. ROYAL HAWAIIAN HOTEL - WAGON WHEEL - NIGHT
The Western-themed restaurant is packed with revelers. Service
members surreptitiously sip from flasks as couples whirl on
the dance floor in front of a Navy band.
Best sits with his arm around Ann at a table across from
Dickinson and McClusky. Dickinson is midway through a story.
DICKINSON
So my dad takes the turn too hard,
and I literally fall off the back of
the turnip truck. The next thing I
know this girl is -A burst of CHEERING from the corner interrupts the story:
it's a group of torpedo bombers and USO women. Lindsey stands
at the center of the circle, basking in attention.

46.
TORPEDO BOMBER
We showed those Japs!
As the group cheers again, Best rolls his eyes.
BEST
Look at those yahoos. We faced the
Jap's B-team, and they still gave us
all we could handle.
DICKINSON
Maybe. But a win's a win. Why not
enjoy the moment?
Best considers the words and then glances down at Ann's empty
glass. He squeezes her shoulder.
BEST
Want another drink?
ANN
I do if you want me to dance.
Best smiles and heads toward the bar. When he's gone, McClusky
leans across the table toward Ann.
MCCLUSKY
You should be proud of your man. He
was a rock out there.
ANN
Why isn't he commanding the squadron?
McClusky blinks at her bluntness -- amusing Dickinson, who
is more familiar with Ann's style.
MCCLUSKY
I don't make those decisions.
ANN
I understood before the war when
everything was about politics. But
now? He's the best pilot in the fleet.
MCCLUSKY
There's an old saying in the Navy.
The best pilots don't make the best
commanders.
ANN
What does that mean?
Dickinson and McClusky stare at Ann, weighing her. Dickinson
eventually decides to be honest.
DICKINSON
Your husband expects everyone to be
as good as he is. And he has no
patience when we aren't.
(MORE)

47.
DICKINSON (CONT'D)
But real leadership comes from
understanding what makes the rest of
us tick.
Ann absorbs the words and then glances across the bar at
Best, who is still waiting for his drinks. As he reaches for
his wallet, a man bellies up to the bar next to him.
It's Layton. He glances at the patch on Best's jacket.
LAYTON
You're a dive bomber on Enterprise?
Best nods, eyes locked on the bartender.
BEST
That's right.
LAYTON
Can I buy you a round?
Best swings his head to look at Layton. He immediately locks
on the insignia attached to his collar.
BEST
Fleet Intelligence, huh?
(beat)
Maybe you guys should spend less
time drinking and more time trying
to find the Japs.
Best's tone is flat, but there's no mistaking the insult.
Layton flushes.
LAYTON
This is my first time out since Pearl.
Me and my team are trying to win
this war, just like you flyboys.
BEST
Yeah, and every time I see the wreck
of the Arizona I think about what a
bang-up job you're doing.
At that moment the bartender returns with the drinks. Best
slaps a five-dollar bill on the bar.
BEST (CONT'D)
Keep the change, buddy.
Best grabs the drinks and strides back to his table, leaving
a stunned Layton in his wake. He puts the glasses down in
front of the group and offers Ann his hand.
BEST (CONT'D)
Let's dance.

48.
INT. ROYAL HAWAIIAN HOTEL - WAGON WHEEL - NIGHT
The party continues as Best and Ann slowly swirl on the dance
floor, her head on his shoulder. For this one moment they
are just a young couple in love.
INT. BEST'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT
Light from the hallway illuminates a child's bedroom. Best
crouches on the floor, watching BARBERA BEST, 4, sleep. She
clutches a teddy bear clad in a Naval Academy football jersey.
The door opens slightly, revealing Ann wearing a bathrobe.
ANN
Come to bed.
Best gently smooths Barb's covers and kisses her forehead.
And then, after one reluctant last look, he leaves the room.
INT. MAIN NAVY BUILDING - NIMITZ'S OFFICE - DAY
Nimitz comes around his desk to greet Halsey, hand
outstretched. As they shake -NIMITZ
Hell of a job, Bill.
HALSEY
Well, I got the boys' feet wet. But
I might have pushed my luck a little
bit at the end.
NIMITZ
We aren't going to get back in this
war without taking a few chances.
(beat)
In that spirit there's someone who I
want you to meet.
Nimitz nods at the corner of the room, and JIMMY DOOLITTLE,
45, steps forward. He wears a leather bomber jacket and -like Halsey -- has an infectious swagger.
NIMITZ (CONT'D)
This is Lieutenant Colonel Doolittle
from the Army Air Force. He wants to
bomb Tokyo.
Halsey gives Doolittle a dubious look.
HALSEY
So do I. But there's the small matter
of fighting through the entire
Japanese navy first.
DOOLITTLE
That's why I want to launch my B-25s
from one of your carriers.
(MORE)

49.
DOOLITTLE (CONT'D)
We have the range to strike from
outside the Japanese defenses.
Halsey blinks, not quite sure that he heard Doolittle right,
and then glances at Nimitz.
HALSEY
He's out of his goddamned mind.
NIMITZ
They say the same thing about you.
Are you willing to try and get him
within 500 miles of Japan?
HALSEY
If some Army flyboy has the guts to
launch a fifteen ton aircraft from a
carrier, I don't see how the Navy
can say no.
Nimitz nods, decision made.
NIMITZ
Then you gentlemen are partners.
EXT. PEARL HARBOR - DAY
Enterprise sorties into the open ocean. Hornet trails behind
her, sixteen B-25Bs strapped to her flight deck. The planes
look outlandishly large on the carrier.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - PILOT READY ROOM - DAY
Five young pilots shift nervously in their seats. Best
abruptly bursts into the room and launches into a speech
without so much as clearing his throat.
BEST
Welcome aboard Enterprise. You're
replacing good men -- much earlier
than either me or the Navy wanted.
But that's war.
(beat)
Questions?
The men blink, overwhelmed. WILLIE WEST, 24, finally sticks
his hand in the air. Willie is athletic and unrelentingly
earnest -- an all-American in the old sense of the phrase.
WILLIE
I saw the bombers on the deck of the
Hornet. Where are we going, sir?
BEST
The destination of this task force
is Tokyo.
WILLIE
Tokyo?

50.
Best stares at Willie, reading his nerves and naivete. After
an uncomfortable moment -BEST
As XO it's my job to make sure you're
worth more than a bucket of warm spit,
and I don't have time to coddle you.
The Japs are waiting for us, so we
need pilots who can hold their own.
Best starts toward the door. He speaks over his shoulder.
BEST (CONT'D)
We'll hold your qualifying landings
as soon as we launch those bombers.
I need you in the rotation ASAP, so
don't screw it up.
And then he's gone. The five young pilots stare at each other,
eyes wide. Last week they were in flight school; today they're
in the middle of the war.
EXT. PACIFIC OCEAN - DAY
Enterprise and Hornet steam due west, surrounded by a ring
of cruisers and destroyers.
SUPER: "APRIL 18, 1942. 750 MILES WEST OF JAPAN"
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
Halsey stands in the center of the bridge, reading a message.
He glances up at his officers.
HALSEY
Enemy pickets five miles out. They're
going to blow our cover.
CAPTAIN BROWNING
Should we tell Doolittle to launch?
HALSEY
Every mile we get him closer to Tokyo
is fuel he can use to get the hell
out of there. But...
Halsey's face reflects his dilemma: he also has to worry
about his own men.
EXT. USS HORNET - FLIGHT DECK - DAY
The B-25Bs are parked impossibly close together on the deck.
Army crews scramble to get into the planes as the cruiser
USS Nashville fires her main battery in the background.
The heavy retort of the guns carries to Jimmy Thatch, who is
watching the scene with GEORGE GAY, 26. Gay is a torpedo
bomber with a blue-collar edge and a thick Texas twang.

51.
GAY
Jesus. You ever seen a cruiser fire
before?
THATCH
Not at a live target.
Gay turns his attention to the B-25Bs. Doolittle is clambering
into the lead bomber.
GAY
They might be Army, but they've got
some balls on them.
(beat)
Ten bucks they don't get those planes
off the deck.
THATCH
I'll take that bet.
The twin engines of Doolittle's B-25B roar into action and
the bomber lurches forward. It's an impossibly short amount
of runway for the huge plane, and when it reaches the end of
the deck it drops toward the waiting sea...
...but its wings claw for air, engines screaming, and the
plane recovers just above the crest of the waves. As it climbs
into the sky, the next B-25B starts down the deck.
Thatch breathes a sigh of relief and then looks at Gay, who
has a similar expression on his face.
GAY
That's ten bucks I'm glad to lose.
INT. MAIN NAVY BUILDING - CINCPAC OPERATIONS ROOM - DAY
Nimitz paces as his flag officers stare down at a giant map.
Layton and Rochefort, meanwhile, are huddled over a longrange radio set in the corner.
NIMITZ
Shouldn't the bombers have reached
Japan by now?
Rochefort twists a dial and the radio locks on a station. A
seductive female voice speaks English with a Japanese accent.
This is the notorious propagandist TOKYO ROSE.
TOKYO ROSE (V.O.)
Hello, this is Radio Tokyo. Everyone
is talking about the collapse of
American forces in the Philippines
and the capture of thousands of their
imperialist troops. Very soon our -Tokyo Rose's voice abruptly ceases, followed by the faint
wail of an AIR RAID SIREN. Nimitz leans toward the radio,
trying to hear through the static.

52.
NIMITZ
Is that what I think it is?
A burst of SHOUTING in Japanese comes through the radio.
Everyone looks at Layton.
NIMITZ (CONT'D)
What are they saying?
Layton listens for a moment. And then a thin smile.
LAYTON
They're under attack.
EXT. LAYTON HOUSE - NIGHT
Layton emerges from his well-worn Ford Deluxe and walks up
the driveway to his front door, briefcase under his arm.
INT. LAYTON HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT
Layton puts his briefcase on the table and pulls out a thick
sheaf of papers. As he begins to sort through them, Miriam
appears in the doorway, wearing a nightgown. She gives Layton
a long look, noting his haggard expression.
MIRIAM
Come to bed. You look like something
the cat spat up.
LAYTON
I'll be right there.
Miriam crosses the room and removes his glasses. Layton
blinks; he's blind as a bat without them.
MIRIAM
I'm taking these hostage.
LAYTON
Just half an hour. I promise.
MIRIAM
Does America winning the war really
depend on Edwin Layton working himself
to death?
Layton weighs her words for a long moment. Finally -LAYTON
Some of our boys bombed Tokyo today.
They were supposed to land in Free
China, but they ran out of fuel and
had to bail out over Japanese occupied
territory. If the Japs catch them,
they'll be tortured and executed.
Miriam blinks, shocked at both the news and the fact that
her husband shared the information.

53.
MIRIAM
What can you do to help them?
LAYTON
Probably nothing. But we're not going
to lose any more men because I didn't
dig deep or push hard enough.
Layton says it without affect, but Miriam can nevertheless
hear the pain behind the words. She carefully slides the
glasses back onto his face and starts toward the kitchen.
MIRIAM
I'll fix you a sandwich.
EXT. CHINA - MOUNTAINSIDE - DAY (DAWN)
Japanese soldiers cluster around a crashed B-25B, staring at
the American insignia painted on its wings and tail. An
officer TALKS into a radio, his tone insistent.
INT. CHINA - WATER MILL - DAY
Doolittle sits against a wall, bandaging a badly-sprained
ankle. A dog trots inside. It growls when it notices him.
DOOLITTLE
Hey, beat it.
The dog responds by bursting into a fit of barking. A moment
later Doolittle hears VOICES outside the door. He looks for
another exit, but he's trapped.
Doolittle draws his service revolver and checks the action.
But his expression is conflicted as he stares down at the
gun. Is he really going to use it?
EXT. CHINA - VILLAGE - DAY
A group of Chinese men hurry a limping Doolittle past gawking
peasants. They lead him through a door into -INT. SCHOOLHOUSE - CONTINUOUS
The cramped room is packed with more peasants. Doolittle
locks on a familiar face: COLE (his co-pilot) is standing
between a pair of burly men in the corner.
As the two Americans exchange a worried glance, ZHU XUESAN,
33, enters. The peasants give him a nod of respect. He looks
at Doolittle and speaks in accented English.
ZHU
Who are you?
Doolittle briefly hesitates before squaring his shoulders.
DOOLITTLE
American pilots. We crashed here
after bombing Japan.

54.
Zhu processes the words and then turns and speaks to the
rest of the group in Chinese. Doolittle tries to read their
reaction, but for an anxious moment they're stone-faced...
...and then they turn to him and begin to smile and bow.
EXT. CHINA - COUNTRYSIDE - DAY
A Japanese armored car rushes down the center of a dirt road.
It makes no effort to swerve around an ox-drawn hay wagon,
and the ancient-looking vehicle is forced into a ditch.
As the dust recedes we reveal that the "farmer" calming the
ox is actually Zhu. We PAN back to reveal two faces peering
out from beneath the hay: Cole and Doolittle. Cole glances
from the retreating armored car to Zhu.
COLE
Why are they helping us?
DOOLITTLE
If you think Pearl Harbor was bad,
you should have seen what the Japs
did to Nanking.
The wagon wheels squeak as the ox once again lumbers forward.
Zhu waits until they're back on the road and then speaks to
the Americans out of the corner of his mouth.
ZHU
Tonight we will cross the lines. You
will be safe by morning. Yes?
Doolittle and Cole glance at each other, grateful for their
unexpected saviors. All they can say is...
DOOLITTLE
Thank you.
EXT. JAPAN - HASHIRAJIMA ANCHORAGE - DAY
The seven giant battleships that form the traditional heart
of the Japanese fleet lie at anchor. The largest of them all
is Yamato, the most powerful warship ever built.
EXT. YAMATO - MAIN DECK - DAY
Tamon steps aboard the ship, ignoring the salutes from a
line of midshipmen. Men are still welding on the deck -Yamato is a month away from being declared operational.
INT. YAMATO - CORRIDOR - DAY
Tamon marches down a long corridor and then stops in front
of a watertight door marked with an admiral's crest. He takes
a breath before he knocks and enters --

55.
INT. YAMATO - YAMAMOTO'S CABIN - CONTINUOUS
The dim light reveals that the spacious suite is filled with
an unusual blend of objects: framed degrees from Harvard and
Oxford next to samurai swords.
Yamamoto sits on a mat in the corner, legs crossed. He speaks
without looking at his guest.
YAMAMOTO
Leave me.
TAMON
You must come out of your cabin.
It's bad for morale.
Yamamoto slowly turns his head. His eyes are hollow.
YAMAMOTO
The Emperor was in Tokyo during the
raid. We put his life at risk.
TAMON
It was a handful of bombers.
YAMAMOTO
We swore to keep our homeland
impenetrable, so even a bungling
attack is better than the most
skillful defense.
Tamon hears the agony in Yamamoto's voice. He crosses the
room and crouches next to his commander.
TAMON
I came from Tokyo. Everyone now agrees
that you were right about the American
carriers. They must be destroyed.
Yamamoto stares at Tamon, a spark lighting in his eyes.
YAMAMOTO
They approved my Midway plan?
TAMON
Tojo says we must finish our operation
in the Coral Sea. But then we can
turn our attention to Midway.
Yamamoto unfolds his legs and stands.
YAMAMOTO
Then we have work to do.
EXT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLIGHT DECK - DAY
Dickinson and Best stand amid a group of pilots and radiomen
in the brilliant sunshine. Best holds a clipboard, his eyes
locked on a SBD approaching the carrier.

56.
The pilot has taken too shallow an approach for his landing,
but he manages to correct and grabs the middle wire. Best
nods to himself and then marks the clipboard.
BEST
Not bad. We'll put him in the
rotation.
(to Dickinson)
Who's next to qualify?
DICKINSON
Willie West.
Best locks on a lone figure walking out to an idling plane.
BEST
Where's his radioman?
DICKINSON
He couldn't find anyone willing to
fly with him.
(off Best)
They could smell his fear. First
time you land on this deck, it looks
like a postage stamp. And nobody
wants to get wet.
Best is clearly unhappy with the situation, but before he can
respond Bruno Gaido steps forward from the group of radiomen.
BRUNO
I'll go with him.
Everyone stares at Bruno; to the other radiomen this seems
like madness. But Bruno just shrugs.
BRUNO (CONT'D)
He shouldn't fly alone.
EXT. PACIFIC OCEAN - DAY
A lone SBD approaches the Enterprise, skewing awkwardly in
the air as the pilot makes constant micro-adjustments.
INT. WILLIE'S SBD - DAY
Willie clutches the stick in a death grip, eyes locked on
the carrier's deck. Bruno growls from the back seat.
BRUNO
Breathe, goddammit.
The words help; Willie slightly relaxes his grip.
EXT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLIGHT DECK - DAY
The SBD comes in like a wounded duck. It appears that it
might overshoot the carrier entirely, but at the last moment
it dips toward the deck. The wheels slam into the wood and
the hook miraculously catches the final wire.

57.
Best and Dickinson share an incredulous glance.
BEST
I guess he passed.
DICKINSON
By an act of god.
BEST
Maybe. But we need him in the rotation.
(off Dickinson)
How else is he going to learn?
Dickinson doesn't like it, but he knows there's truth behind
Best's words. They need every pilot they can get.
EXT. PEARL HARBOR - DAY
It's only been five months since the attack, but most of the
damage has been repaired and new buildings have arisen.
INT. MAIN NAVY BUILDING - NIMITZ'S OFFICE - DAY
Nimitz stares out the window at the harbor, brow furrowed as
he thinks. He finally turns back to the room, revealing --- Rochefort and Layton standing in front of the tactical
map. The position of two US carrier task forces are clearly
marked: Lexington and Yorktown are in the South Pacific and
Enterprise is halfway between them and Pearl Harbor.
NIMITZ
So the Japanese are sending two
carriers into the Coral Sea?
Layton's hand sweeps across a handful of islands.
LAYTON
They're trying to break our lifeline
to Australia. And if they succeed...
We'll be screwed. Nimitz nods to himself.
NIMITZ
Then Lexington and Yorktown are in
the right spot. I'll order Enterprise
to join them.
Rochefort realizes they've been dismissed and starts for the
door. But Layton grabs his arm.
LAYTON
Tell him about the other thing.
ROCHEFORT
It's just a theory.
NIMITZ
What kind of theory?

58.
Rochefort doesn't like being called on the carpet, especially
in front of his admiral. But he reluctantly explains.
ROCHEFORT
The Japanese are planning something
bigger. Much bigger.
NIMITZ
What makes you think that?
ROCHEFORT
Little bits and pieces that we've
intercepted. A message that a
battleship won't be ready in time
for an upcoming operation. A request
for maps of the Aleutians Islands.
Orders for large quantities of
refueling hoses.
NIMITZ
Where are they going to hit?
ROCHEFORT
We don't know yet.
NIMITZ
Well, figure it out.
Nimitz means it as a joke, but Rochefort takes him at face
value. He salutes and then exits. Layton, however, lingers.
LAYTON
I trust his instincts.
NIMITZ
I hope so. Because I'm betting on them.
Nimitz stares down at the two carriers in the South Pacific.
NIMITZ (CONT'D)
You know, we finally might be facing
decent odds. Especially if Enterprise
gets down there in time.
EXT. CORAL SEA - DAY
Amid the picturesque turquoise waters a carrier burns, a
thick plume of oily black smoke rising into the sky.
"Lexington" is painted across her stern.
SUPER: "CORAL SEA - MAY 8, 1942"
KABOOM! Aviation fuel ignites, sending the Lexington's rear
elevator soaring into the sky. This ship is finished.
HALSEY (V.O.)
Two enemy carriers supposedly wounded.
But at the price of the Lexington.
And Yorktown severely damaged.

59.
The camera PANS to reveal a second carrier: the Yorktown.
She's burning from a bomb strike amidships.
HALSEY (V.O.) (CONT'D)
Dammit. Why couldn't we have been there?
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
Halsey paces on the bridge, a bundle of raw emotions. The
flag officers are staying out of his way.
CAPTAIN BROWNING
This leaves us and Hornet as the
only carriers in the Pacific.
HALSEY
Yeah. And Hornet is so green that
she looks like a goddamned floating
Christmas tree.
(beat)
We're the one ship standing between
the Japanese and the West Coast.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - PILOT READY ROOM - DAY
A dozen pilots read and play cards. Halsey enters and the
men instantly snap to attention.
HALSEY
I want to see Best and McClusky.
The other pilots quickly exit. It's clear from Best and
McClusky's expressions that they are wondering why their
admiral wants to see them alone.
HALSEY (CONT'D)
At ease.
Right. They nevertheless do their best to appear relaxed.
Halsey, meanwhile, leans against the wall and stares at the
flight board, absentmindedly scratching his side. Best notes
the deep bags under Halsey's eyes.
BEST
Are you okay, admiral?
HALSEY
I'm not sleeping. Got some kind of
strange rash...
Halsey catches himself and squares his shoulders, the usual
bulldog expression returning to his face.
HALSEY (CONT'D)
I'm done playing politics. This ship
is about to run a gauntlet, so I
need my best men in the right spots.
(MORE)

60.
HALSEY (CONT'D)
(to McClusky)
You're now in charge of the whole
air group. I don't have a lick of
confidence in those damn torpedoes,
so I want you in a dive bomber.
(to Best)
And I'm bumping you up from second
in command of Bombing Six. You're
the new skipper.
The two men are speechless; all they can do is pull themselves
into a pair of crisp salutes. Halsey gives them a hard look.
HALSEY (CONT'D)
The Navy -- hell, the whole damn
country -- is counting on you. So
don't screw it up.
And then he stomps out of the room, leaving Best and McClusky
alone with their new responsibilities.
INT. YAMATO - CORRIDOR - DAY
Yamamoto marches down a hallway. Men are SHOUTING behind a
closed door. He throws it open and bursts into -INT. YAMATO - MAP ROOM - CONTINUOUS
The shouting instantly ceases as Yamamoto enters. A dozen
officers stand around a giant table covered with a map. Tiny
ship models cover the central Pacific, and dice lie on a
felt pad -- it's a massive war game.
YAMAMOTO
Why are you arguing? This is no way
to conduct a war game.
ADMIRAL NAGUMO, 61, stands in the center of the room, his
face red. A row of medals hang from his chest, and he fills
out his uniform like a samurai... but appearances lie. He's
a dull and utterly unimaginative commander.
Nagumo gestures at a JUNIOR OFFICER who is wearing an armband
marked with an American flag.
ADMIRAL NAGUMO
That young fool deviated from
doctrine.
Nagumo's finger juts at the center of the giant map, where
four Japanese carriers lie to the west of Midway Island.
ADMIRAL NAGUMO (CONT'D)
I followed your plan. We attacked
Midway with the carriers...
Nagumo's finger moves west to a thick cluster of ships.

61.
ADMIRAL NAGUMO (CONT'D)
...while our battleships waited here
to spring the trap. My carriers were
ready to pivot as soon as the
Americans responded from Pearl.
YAMAMOTO
But...?
Everyone's attention turns to the junior officer. He swallows
hard, trying to find his confidence.
JUNIOR OFFICER
My forces didn't come from Pearl.
They were waiting to the northeast
and launched their strike while Admiral
Nagumo's planes were occupied bombing
Midway. I sunk three of his carriers.
ADMIRAL NAGUMO
Such a move is impossible. Unless
the Americans know we are coming.
Tamon speaks from the corner of the room, where he has been
watching the debate like a hawk.
TAMON
But what will you do if you are wrong?
If the Americans have the advantage
of surprise?
Nagumo gives Tamon an imperious look, displeased with the
challenge from a subordinate. GENDA MINORU, 37, the cocky
young officer responsible for air operations in the fleet,
responds on his behalf with a dismissive wave.
GENDA
One touch of the armored gauntlet.
Yamamoto stares at Nagumo, his expression demanding a more
detailed explanation. Nagumo shrugs.
ADMIRAL NAGUMO
Genda is right. Our defensive power
is unbreakable.
Yamamoto considers this for a moment and then turns to the
young officer playing the Americans.
YAMAMOTO
Start again. But this time your
carriers must come from Pearl.
EXT. YAMATO - MAIN DECK - DAY
Tamon stands near the sharp prow of the mighty warship,
staring out at the vast fleet. It's a remarkable collection
of military might, yet Tamon's brow is furrowed.
Yamamoto approaches. After a long moment --

62.
YAMAMOTO
You don't approve.
TAMON
I never liked Kabuki theater. And it
worries me that Nagumo can't even
win a war game without cheating.
YAMAMOTO
All he has to do is follow the plan.
(beat)
And so do you.
Tamon hears the subtext in those words: we might be friends,
but I am your superior officer. So he keeps his mouth shut.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - PILOT READY ROOM - DAY
The squadron's pilots are sprawled across the chairs.
Dickinson, who is writing a letter, notices Best enter.
DICKINSON
Ten-hut!
The pilots snap to their feet. Best rolls his eyes and then
locks on Dickinson, who is fighting a smirk.
BEST
Funny.
(to the men)
Sit the hell down.
As they settle back into their chairs -BEST (CONT'D)
Well, I guess you heard the news. I
know some of you thought I was a
pain-in-the-ass as an XO, but it's
about to get worse.
(beat)
We're headed back to Pearl to resupply,
and it's probably because something
big is coming down the pipe. I'm
therefore doubling scouting flights,
and I expect you to practice diving
runs whenever you get a chance. Don't
be the guy who lets down the squadron
when we finally face the Japs.
Best surveys the room; the levity is gone.
BEST (CONT'D)
Dismissed.
Best turns to the ready board and stares at it as the men
silently file out the door behind him. Willie, however, stays
behind. When everyone else is gone, Best glances at him.
BEST (CONT'D)
Yeah?

63.
The words come in a rush.
WILLIE
I don't know if I can do this, sir.
I thought I was a good pilot, but
I've totally lost my confidence.
Best stares at Willie, weighing him. Finally -BEST
Why did you join the Navy? Were you
trying to impress some girl?
Even Willie can't help being insulted by the question.
WILLIE
I wanted to be a pilot.
BEST
Then you've gotta suck it up. Look
around, kid. America is getting its
ass kicked, so nobody has time to
worry about your confidence. We need
you up in the air. Got it?
The direct challenge to his manhood has stiffened Willie's
spine. He speaks through tight lips.
WILLIE
Yes, sir.
As Willie turns to exit, an instinct tells Best that he has
pushed too hard. He calls after Willie -BEST
Wait.
(Willie pauses)
From now on you're my wingman.
This news is simultaneously comforting and terrifying to
Willie. He stands frozen, wondering whether this new position
means that Best might give him more advice.
But Best has already turned back to the board.
INT. MAIN NAVY BUILDING - NIMITZ'S OFFICE - DAY
Nimitz sits at his desk, shuffling through papers. Layton
knocks on the doorframe and then enters.
LAYTON
You wanted to see me, sir?
NIMITZ
I just got off the phone with
Washington. They think that you and
Rochefort are wrong about this big
operation.
(MORE)

64.
NIMITZ (CONT'D)
Their intelligence indicates that
the Japs are sending their carriers
back into the Coral Sea, so they've
ordered me to keep Enterprise down
there.
LAYTON
Washington is starting from a faulty
assumption and looking for evidence
to corroborate it. If you listen to
them, we'll all end up as POWs.
Layton regrets the final words as soon as they come out of
his mouth; he's usually better at politics. But Nimitz just
leans back in his chair.
NIMITZ
So what's the Japs' real target?
LAYTON
Midway Island. They see it as a step
toward Hawaii. And the West Coast.
Nimitz's eyes flicker to the map and then back to Layton.
NIMITZ
When?
LAYTON
In the next few weeks.
Nimitz studies Layton and sees nothing but absolute conviction
in his expression. He pushes himself to his feet.
NIMITZ
Show me. If I'm going against
Washington, I need to know why.
EXT. PEARL HARBOR - DAY
Nimitz's staff car pulls up in front of the drab Old
Administration Building. Sailors and secretaries gawk as
Nimitz emerges from the sedan and strides inside with Layton.
INT. OLD ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - LOBBY - DAY
Layton and Nimitz head down a linoleum-clad hall toward a
staircase. As they start into the bowels of the building,
Layton gives Nimitz a nervous look.
LAYTON
I have to warn you, sir. Rochefort's
way of doing things is... particular.
NIMITZ
I don't care if he's consulting an
oracle if the intelligence is good.

65.
They reach a door marked "Station HYPO." It's guarded by an
armed Marine, who opens the door for them. They enter -INT. STATION HYPO - CONTINUOUS
The open room is stuffed with metal desks and IBM punchcard
machines. A few dozen men in Navy khakis perform a variety
of tasks, laughing and joking as they work until --- they notice Nimitz and snap to attention. Suddenly, the
only sound is the mechanical rattle of the IBM machines.
Nimitz glances down at the desk next to the door. A collection
of pinups lies under the glass and a hand-printed sign reads:
"You don't have to be crazy to work here... but it helps."
As Nimitz smiles thinly to himself, Layton follows his gaze
to the pinup. He turns to the nearest man, mortified.
LAYTON
Where's Rochefort?
The man points to the office in the back of the room. Nimitz
starts in that direction, Layton trailing him.
NIMITZ
It's crowded in here.
LAYTON
We've tripled the staff.
NIMITZ
I didn't realize that the Navy had
so many trained codebreakers.
LAYTON
We don't.
(off Nimitz's look)
Most of these men were in the band
on the California. Since we don't
have much use for bands these days...
Nimitz gives him a skeptical look.
NIMITZ
Musicians?
LAYTON
Rochefort thought their musical ability
might make them naturals at breaking
the rhythms of ciphers. And he was
right... the men in this room process
a million punch cards per week.
Layton opens a door and they step into -INT. STATION HYPO - ROCHEFORT'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
Rochefort is shaking a pill into his hand as they enter. He
quickly swallows it and then leaps to his feet, revealing

66.
that he's wearing slippers and a smoking jacket. He nervously
gestures at his clothes.
ROCHEFORT
Sorry, admiral. It gets cold down
here in the dungeon.
Nimitz ignores the apology. His icy eyes note the cot in the
corner before boring into Rochefort.
NIMITZ
Layton tells me that you're confident
the Japs are going to hit Midway.
ROCHEFORT
Yes, sir.
Nimitz makes a gesture that encompasses the whole operation.
NIMITZ
Explain how this works.
ROCHEFORT
We intercept roughly sixty percent
of secure Japanese radio traffic.
We've cracked enough of their code
to be able to break about forty
percent of those messages.
NIMITZ
So... we can read about a quarter of
their secure communications.
ROCHEFORT
Not exactly. Here are some of our
'cracked' messages.
Rochefort pushes a bunch of papers toward Nimitz. He glances
down and sees that only about ten percent of the words are
broken -- the rest are just numbers and letters.
NIMITZ
This is gibberish.
ROCHEFORT
Yes, but if you read enough of it...
LAYTON
Rochefort has a gift for assembling
the fragments. He can recall a detail
from a message two months ago and
plug it into today's intercept.
NIMITZ
Do you have any direct proof that
Midway is the target?
ROCHEFORT
Direct proof? No.

67.
Rochefort sees the doubt in Nimitz's eyes.
ROCHEFORT (CONT'D)
Imagine you're throwing a wedding.
Maybe I've never seen the invitation,
but I hear from the caterers that
they have an event on a certain date.
The flower guy is buying every rose
on the island. The best band is booked.
That's what signal intelligence can
give you. Clues. Not the smoking gun.
Nimitz takes a heavy breath -- obviously on the fence. Layton
steps forward, passion propelling his words.
LAYTON
Sir, you should have fired me after
Pearl Harbor. But instead you gave
me a chance to redeem myself.
(beat)
I swear to you. Rochefort is right
about this.
Nimitz glances back and forth between the two officers. It's
crazy to be betting on this madhouse staffed by tuba players
and run by a man in fuzzy slippers. And yet...
NIMITZ
I'll get Enterprise back to Pearl.
But we need Washington on board, so
you have to figure out a way to
convince them that they're wrong
about Midway.
Layton hears the subtext in the speech: and if I'm going to
put my career on the line, you need to convince me too.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - ADMIRAL'S CABIN - DAY
Halsey works at his small desk, looking even more haggard
than the last time we saw him. He turns his head at a KNOCK
on the door. It's Browning, holding a slip of paper.
CAPTAIN BROWNING
Sir, an eyes-only message from Nimitz.
Halsey takes the paper. A hint of a smile runs across his
face as he reads it.
HALSEY
He wants us to get spotted.
CAPTAIN BROWNING
Why?
HALSEY
Because if we're spotted, we can
break our standing orders from
Washington and head back to Pearl.

68.
Halsey picks up a lighter from the desk. As the slip of paper
in his hand ignites, he glances at Browning.
HALSEY (CONT'D)
We never got this message.
INT. STATION HYPO - ROCHEFORT'S OFFICE - NIGHT
Layton paces as Rochefort lies on his cot, red eyes staring
up at the ceiling. Rochefort finally rolls over and grabs a
pill bottle from the desk. As he swallows one -LAYTON
What is that? Benzedrine?
ROCHEFORT
I have to stay awake somehow.
LAYTON
Are you eating anything?
Rochefort shrugs. Layton's face registers his concern.
LAYTON (CONT'D)
At least take it with water. So you
don't die of dehydration.
Rochefort's eyes abruptly widen -- his face practically
illuminated by the light bulb going off over his head.
ROCHEFORT
Wait. That's it!
Layton stares curiously at Rochefort as he rustles through
the piles of paper on his desk. He pulls out a message with
the letters "AF" circled in red ink.
ROCHEFORT (CONT'D)
Washington agrees with us that the
Japanese are going to attack a target
codenamed AF. But they believe AF is
in the South Pacific and nothing we
say can change their minds.
LAYTON
Yeah...?
ROCHEFORT
The problem is the messenger. Their
ego won't let them admit that we're
right and they're wrong. But what if
we let the Japanese tell them?
Off Layton's intrigued look...
CUT TO:

69.
EXT. MIDWAY ISLAND - DAY
Calling this little spit of sand in the center of the Pacific
Ocean an "island" is really glorifying it. Every square inch
of dry land is covered by a military airfield, swarms of
anti-aircraft batteries, and barracks.
A COLONEL strides toward a utilitarian building with giant
radio signal masts on the roof.
INT. MIDWAY RADIO FACILITY - MAIN OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
As the colonel enters, a LIEUTENANT snaps to attention.
LIEUTENANT
Cable from Pearl, sir. They want us
to broadcast that our fresh water
facility has broken. And they want
us to use the old strip cipher code.
COLONEL
I thought that code was compromised
when the Japs took Wake.
The lieutenant shrugs -- this is above his pay grade.
INT. JAPANESE LISTENING STATION - DAY
Twenty radiomen sit at their posts, listening to transmissions
through bulky headphone and carefully transcribing what they
hear onto slips of paper.
In an adjacent room, visible through a pane of glass, a line
of officers attempt to decode the captured messages. One of
the men stands and waves over his superior.
They talk M.O.S., their rising excitement palpable.
INT. MAIN NAVY BUILDING - NIMITZ'S OFFICE - DAY
Nimitz glances up from his desk as Layton enters.
NIMITZ
I just heard from Washington. They
intercepted several Japanese messages
claiming that the target of their
upcoming attack is out of fresh water.
LAYTON
That's interesting, sir. I heard
that Midway Island sent out a
transmission that their water plant
was broken.
NIMITZ
Is their water plant broken?
LAYTON
Not that I know of, sir.

70.
Nimitz can't contain a slight smile of appreciation at his
junior officers' cleverness. But it quickly fades.
NIMITZ
Tell Rochefort that everyone now
agrees where his wedding is going to
be held. But I need to know how many
guests are going to come. And when
they're planning to arrive.
EXT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLIGHT DECK - DAY
Four SBDs are spotted on the deck for takeoff. Best sticks
his head into the cockpit of the second plane in line. Willie
stares back at him, face pale in the morning light.
BEST
Simple scouting mission. On the way
home we'll practice a dive. Got it?
WILLIE
Yes, sir.
BEST
We're going steeper this time. Listen
to your radioman count the altitude.
And don't pull up too hard at the
bottom or you'll black out.
Best drops back down onto the teak deck, jogs to the lead
plane, and swings into -INT. BEST'S SBD - CONTINUOUS
Best revs the engine and the launching signal officer points
his flag toward the bow. Best releases his brake, and the
SBD accelerates down the deck...
...but just before the end of the runway Best realizes that
something is wrong. He shoves the throttle forward, but the
engine is already running flat-out.
BEST
Oh, shit.
The SBD lurches off the end of the deck and falls toward the
ocean. Best expertly fights the stall and drops the nose,
trading altitude for speed. Murray just closes his eyes, his
worst fears realized, and braces for impact...
...but at the last instant -- when the wheels are mere feet
from the waves -- Best gently pulls back on the stick. The
SBD reluctantly starts to rise.
Best immediately shouts into the radio -BEST (CONT'D)
Abort! Abort takeoff!

71.
EXT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLIGHT DECK - DAY
Dickinson emerges from the hatch in the island and sprints
toward the launching signal officer. He's shouting something,
but the engine roar from the remaining SBDs muffles the words.
As Willie's plane accelerates, Dickinson snatches the flag
and waves it back and forth in the abort signal.
DICKINSON
The ship's too slow. We're not
generating enough wind for launch.
The news horrifies the officer. Dickinson, meanwhile, keeps
waving the flag, but Willie's nervous eyes are fixated on
the edge of the Enterprise ahead of him.
As the plane reaches the end of the deck, it drops toward
the ocean. Willie, unlike Best, keeps his nose up, and the
plane flutters like a falling kite toward the waiting sea.
INT. BEST'S SBD - DAY
Best watches, horrified, as Willie's SBD knifes into the
ocean. Enterprise turns, her prow barely missing the plane,
but the wake shoves one wing under the water.
Best yanks on his stick to circle the wreck, his eyes locked
on the rescue destroyer. It's still hundreds of yards away.
BEST
(into radio)
He's going under, goddammit. Tell
that rescue crew to move their ass.
INT. WILLIE'S SBD - DAY
A wave breaks over the windshield as Willie frantically pulls
at his straps, the cockpit already half-submerged.
In his panic Willie inhales a mouthful of seawater. As he
retches, another wave smashes over his head.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
Halsey paces, brow knitted with worry, as Browning stares
out the window through binoculars.
CAPTAIN BROWNING
The plane just went under.
HALSEY
And the crew?
Browning just grimly shakes his head. Halsey looks as if
he's about to be sick.

72.
INT. BEST'S SBD - DAY
Best slams his fist against the side of his cockpit, face
red with anger and frustration.
BEST
No, goddammit. No!
EXT. PEARL HARBOR - DAY (DAWN)
Enterprise cuts through the early morning fog toward her
berth. The giant American flag flies at half mast.
EXT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLIGHT DECK - DAY
The air group stands in formation in their white uniforms as
the Marine guard presents arms. Five pilots -- including
Best and McClusky -- are at the front of the group.
Nimitz moves down the line, pinning medals to the men's
chests. He pauses in front of Best.
NIMITZ
They tell me you were a one-man
wrecking ball in the Marshall Islands.
Best's eyes are hollow; he hasn't slept since Willie's crash.
He has to force the response.
BEST
We all did our duty, sir.
Nimitz leans close, his tone conspiratorial.
NIMITZ
I think you'll have a chance to do
it again in a couple of days.
EXT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
The ceremony has just ended. Halsey stands on the bridge,
watching his pilots on the deck below him. As Nimitz enters,
Halsey shakes his head.
HALSEY
They're good kids. I've asked a lot
of them, and they've done it without
flinching. But it's been six months
without a break. They're worn out.
Nimitz takes stock of Halsey and is shocked by what he sees:
the loss of weight, his pallid face, an angry red rash.
NIMITZ
They aren't the only ones. You look
like hell, Bill.
HALSEY
I'm fine.

73.
But even Halsey knows it isn't true. Nimitz shakes his head.
NIMITZ
You're going ashore to the hospital -(Halsey starts to object)
-- and that's a direct order.
EXT. BEST'S HOUSE - DAY
As Best strides up the driveway, still wearing his dress
whites, Ann emerges from the house. An enormous smile splits
her face when she sees him.
ANN
I heard a ship's horn. I was praying
it was Enterprise.
Best pulls her into his arms, and they hold each other for a
long moment. She finally pulls back to look at him. Her eyes
lock on his chest.
ANN (CONT'D)
Is that a medal?
(he nods)
Did you get it for doing something
stupid?
BEST
Is there any other way to get a medal?
She smiles. But then she notices his haunted look.
ANN
What's wrong?
BEST
I just want to come inside. See our
daughter. Sit for a while.
Ann blinks; this isn't the man she knows. But she's wise
enough to just take his hand and lead him into the house.
INT. ROYAL HAWAIIAN HOTEL - WAGON WHEEL - NIGHT
It's a more subdued mood tonight -- no band and only a
smattering of women. McClusky and Dickinson drink in the
corner with Thatch and Gay (the pilots from Hornet).
Thatch is in the middle of an intense explanation. He's using
four quarters laid out on the table to illustrate a point.
THATCH
The problem is the Jap's fighters
are faster and more maneuverable
than us. But we can take more
punishment. So I came up with this...
Thatch moves the quarters on the table in a distinctive
crossing pattern.

74.
THATCH (CONT'D)
We fly in tight formation, weaving
back and forth across each other's
tails. Whenever a Jap lines up to
take a shot, your partner and his
wingman get a clean look at him.
McClusky gives the quarters a doubtful look.
MCCLUSKY
You've practiced this?
THATCH
In San Diego. Worked like a charm.
MCCLUSKY
Hope you're right.
(shifting gears)
So they moved you over to Yorktown.
How are the other squadrons?
THATCH
The fighter groups are great. Dive
bombers are strong. The torpedo
bombers, on the other hand...
Everyone looks at Gay. He shrugs, unoffended.
GAY
It's not our fault the damn torpedoes
don't explode.
DICKINSON
Not to mention that your planes are
slower than molasses.
GAY
Hey, you gotta admit it takes a pair
to fly a deathtrap.
The group smiles -- Gay might be a torpedo guy, but he clearly
has the right stuff. Dickinson pulls out his flask and pours
a heavy slug into Gay's glass.
DICKINSON
Which is why I'm buying you a drink.
GAY
I think you guys on Enterprise are
the ones who need the drink. Yorktown
is sitting this one out.
MCCLUSKY
The damage is that bad?
GAY
She got a bomb right down the
elevator. They have to rebuild the
whole guts of the ship.

75.
THATCH
We'll fly with you boys next time.
DICKINSON
If there is a next time.
McClusky raises his glass. The others match him.
MCCLUSKY
To coming back.
The words hang in the air.
INT. BEST'S HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT
Best lies with his head on Ann's lap, the curtains waving in
the warm Hawaiian breeze.
BEST
I got promoted. Halsey made me the
new skipper of Bombing Six.
ANN
You don't sound happy. I thought
that's what you wanted.
BEST
I thought it was what we wanted.
ANN
It is. It's just... I didn't think
that I'd worry this much.
(beat)
Yesterday morning Betty Herman was
getting her boys ready for school -just like any other day -- until two
officers in full dress showed up on
her porch. And before they said a
word, she knew her kids were going
to grow up without a father.
BEST
We keep losing men, and it's not even
the Japs. Herman crashed on takeoff,
Tom Durkin disappeared on patrol. So
did Bucky Walters. And then there was
this other kid. Willie West.
Best swallows hard, eyes locked on the ceiling.
BEST (CONT'D)
He was so green. Told me that he
didn't think he could cut it, but it
seemed like the usual jitters. I
figured I'd take him under my wing...
(beat)
I wrote a letter to his mother
yesterday morning. Telling her that
I failed him.

76.
Ann stares down at her husband; she's never seen this kind
of emotion from him before.
ANN
It's not your fault.
BEST
I thought I was supposed to push
him. That's what my XO did to me,
and it made me a better pilot. But
he wasn't ready.
ANN
Nobody's ready for war.
BEST
The thing is... Willie was right to
be scared. Everyone knows something
big is coming. And I believe in my
guys -- we can stand against anyone.
But we're talking about a couple dozen
planes against the whole Japanese
fleet. And if we lose, they'll own
the Pacific. Australia will fall,
maybe Hawaii too. They'll raid the
West Coast. San Francisco and Seattle
and Los Angeles will burn. This damn
war will last a decade.
For a long moment Ann is frozen. The look on Best's face
unsettles her even more than his words.
ANN
I've never seen you worried before.
BEST
I didn't have anything to worry about
when it was just me and the plane.
But it's different now.
He looks up at her, emotionally naked.
BEST (CONT'D)
Do you think I can lead the squadron?
ANN
Of course you can. Just be honest.
Let them see what I can see.
(beat)
I'd follow you anywhere, Dick Best.
She leans forward and kisses his forehead. Best closes his
eyes, his worries briefly abating in the warmth of her belief.
EXT. YAMATO - MAIN DECK - NIGHT
The fleet is blacked out for security. Tamon stares out at
the ghostly outlines of the nearby ships, lost in thought.

77.
A door opens behind him, briefly spilling the sound of a
raucous party. Tamon remains motionless as Nagumo lurches
over to him, drunk. Nagumo gives him a disdainful look.
ADMIRAL NAGUMO
Your face depresses me.
Tamon ignores him. Nagumo flushes.
ADMIRAL NAGUMO (CONT'D)
Are you too good to drink with your
fellow officers?
TAMON
It's bad luck to celebrate before a
battle.
Tamon turns on his heel and strides away, leaving Nagumo
alone in the darkness.
EXT. YAMATO - MAIN DECK - DAY (DAWN)
A hungover crew of enlisted seamen hose vomit out of the
ship's scuppers. They pause to glance through the mist at --- four enormous Japanese carriers heading out to sea,
followed by a slew of escorts: battleships and cruisers and
destroyers. It's an overwhelming display of force.
A long figure stands on the bridge of the last carrier,
Hiryu. It's Tamon. He has strapped his katana sword to his
sash like a samurai headed into battle.
EXT. PEARL HARBOR - DRY DOCK - DAY
Nimitz crouches on the deck of the Yorktown, staring into
the crater made by the bomb. Arc welders illuminate the space,
accompanied by the deafening sound of hammers pounding metal.
The contrast between the vast Japanese fleet and this wounded
ship couldn't be more stark: How can the Americans possibly
win given their resources?
An anxious Navy Yard INSPECTOR stands next to Nimitz.
INSPECTOR
We need at least two weeks.
Nimitz gives him a look that could freeze water. The inspector
shifts, defensive.
INSPECTOR (CONT'D)
Our initial estimate was three months
in a dry dock at Puget.
NIMITZ
I need this ship, so I don't care if
you have to patch the deck with
plywood. Yorktown sails in twentyfour hours.

78.
We see nothing but doubt on the inspector's face.
INT. MAIN NAVY BUILDING - CINCPAC OPERATIONS ROOM - DAY
A giant chart of the Pacific lies on a makeshift table held
up by a pair of sawhorses. Tracing paper covers the chart
with the estimated position of Japanese ships in orange and
American ships in blue.
Nimitz stands over the table with Layton and Rochefort and
his core group of senior officers.
NIMITZ
I have bad news. Admiral Halsey is
in the hospital and will be unable
to lead this operation.
The room blanches. Nimitz turns to the officer standing next
to him: REAR ADMIRAL RAYMOND SPRUANCE, 55. Spruance is short
and wiry and has earned a reputation within the Navy for
being both a thinker and a doer.
NIMITZ (CONT'D)
I have given Admiral Spruance the
Enterprise. Our mission is simple.
We must try to inflict maximum damage
with attrition tactics.
Nimitz taps Midway on the map.
NIMITZ (CONT'D)
We have put every plane we could fit
on Midway's runway, but those men
aren't nearly as well trained as our
carrier aviators. The responsibility
for winning this battle therefore
falls on you.
Spruance stares down at the chart. Most men would be
overwhelmed, but he's just absorbing the information.
REAR ADMIRAL SPRUANCE
How reliable are these estimates of
the Japanese positions?
LAYTON
They represent our best guess based
on the intelligence that we have.
That answer doesn't satisfy Spruance at all.
REAR ADMIRAL SPRUANCE
I can't plan around a guess.
Nimitz locks on Layton.
NIMITZ
I understand that I'm asking the
impossible, but I need you to be
(MORE)

79.
NIMITZ (CONT'D)
specific. Everything depends on our
forces being in the right place at
the right time.
Layton considers the question and then turns to Rochefort,
who is standing in the corner of the room. Everyone follows
Layton's look.
The attention briefly causes Rochefort to shrink into himself,
but then he swallows hard and speaks in a level voice.
ROCHEFORT
The Japanese will attack on the
morning of June fourth from the
northwest at a bearing of 325 degrees.
They will be sighted 185 miles from
Midway at 0700 local time.
A STAFF OFFICER speaks from the corner.
STAFF OFFICER
Washington disagrees.
LAYTON
Washington is wrong. Again.
That last word lands. Everyone in this room remembers what
happened just six months earlier. Nimitz turns to Spruance.
NIMITZ
These are the men I trust, so make
your plans accordingly.
Spruance nods. As he turns to exit, Nimitz stares down at
the chart. He speaks to himself.
NIMITZ (CONT'D)
It's all over but the shooting.
EXT. NAVAL HOSPITAL PEARL HARBOR - PORCH - DAY
Halsey, wearing a patient's bathrobe and trailing an IV,
stares out at Pearl Harbor. Enterprise has just slipped her
berth and is heading back to sea.
Halsey's eyes are filled with tears. He has prepared for this
moment his entire life and considers the men on that ship his
family -- yet at this critical moment he's stuck ashore.
It breaks his heart.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
Spruance stands by himself near the windows of the bridge,
staring up at a squadron of planes. Browning approaches him.
CAPTAIN BROWNING
Are you ready to land Torpedo Six?

80.
REAR ADMIRAL SPRUANCE
Yeah. Get 'em aboard.
Browning gestures to the signal officer. A moment later the
lead plane in formation -- a torpedo bomber -- starts its
approach. Spruance watches with a furrowed brow as the plane
slowly closes on the Enterprise's wake.
REAR ADMIRAL SPRUANCE (CONT'D)
I'm no pilot, but does he look slow?
An instant later the TBD stalls. Its left wing dips and then
the four-ton aircraft smacks into the water with a gigantic
splash. Browning just shakes his head.
CAPTAIN BROWNING
Jesus. Another?
EXT. PACIFIC OCEAN - DAY
The rescue destroyer comes alongside the wrecked TBD, which
is sinking at the nose. The radioman and GUNNER hold Lindsey
on the wing. Blood runs down Lindsey's face from a bad cut.
As the destroyer's crew reaches down to pull him aboard -GUNNER
Easy. He hurt his back.
The crewmen gingerly lift Lindsey over the rail, but he
nevertheless winces in pain.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - PILOT READY ROOM - DAY
Best pours over a chart with the estimated Japanese positions
marked in red. Dickinson enters and walks over to the table.
He looks down at the chart, head shaking.
DICKINSON
We got the Jap positions and
everything, huh? Our man in Tokyo is
worth every cent we're paying him.
A slight smile from Best. Dickinson studies the chart.
DICKINSON (CONT'D)
Four enemy carriers. Plus the biggest
battleship in the world and countless
cruisers and destroyers...
BEST
The odds aren't good. But if we
surprise them, we've got a chance.
DICKINSON
Even without Yorktown? The other
guys think it's a suicide mission.
Dickinson's tone suggests that he might share their opinion.
Best turns and gives him a long look. Finally --

81.
BEST
How do I get the men to believe?
DICKINSON
In you or the mission?
BEST
Both.
DICKINSON
They just need to know that you
believe in them. Even though they
aren't as good as you. And then
they'll follow you into hell.
As Best processes the words, a door slams open and an ENSIGN
bursts into the room.
ENSIGN
Ship sighted!
EXT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLIGHT DECK - DAY
Hundreds of men stand on the rail, staring at an approaching
boxy gray shape on the horizon.
SAILOR
It's Yorktown!
A CHEER goes up from the men as they realize he's right. Maybe
we're still underdogs, but at least we have a chance.
Best and Dickinson, meanwhile, burst out of a hatch. Dickinson
locks on Yorktown, head shaking.
DICKINSON
How the hell did she get out of
drydock in time?
Best shrugs. But his relief is written on his face.
BEST
Every good battle needs a miracle.
INT. MAIN NAVY BUILDING - CINCPAC OPERATIONS ROOM - NIGHT
The clock reads almost midnight. A bleary Layton glances
back and forth between cable intercepts and the giant chart.
Nimitz enters and gives Layton a look.
NIMITZ
You've memorized every position on
that board, Layton. Go home.
LAYTON
I'm going to sleep here, sir. Just
in case something comes up.
NIMITZ
Your wife doesn't mind?

82.
LAYTON
She knows the drill.
NIMITZ
My wife knows the drill too, but she
still minds.
Layton hears the subtext in Nimitz's words. He thinks for a
long moment and then decides to be honest.
LAYTON
If Miriam doesn't divorce me, I'm
going to spend the rest of my life
making it up to her.
Nimitz bobs his head: a faint gesture of recognition. As he
steps out of the room -NIMITZ
Good man.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - HANGER - NIGHT
Best crouches under the wing of an SBD, meticulously
inspecting every rivet and seam. A young WATCH OFFICER comes
around the corner, footsteps echoing in the deserted hanger.
He gives Best a curious look.
WATCH OFFICER
Are you okay, sir?
BEST
Just looking over the planes.
The watch officer can't help asking...
WATCH OFFICER
Is it true, sir? Are we finally facing
the Japs tomorrow?
BEST
I hope so.
The watch officer nods to himself -- seemingly reassured by
Best's quiet confidence -- and then beats a retreat.
Best, meanwhile, continues his lonely vigil. As he moves to
the next plane, the notes of reveille PLAY...
EXT. MIDWAY ISLAND - DAY (DAWN)
The American flag rises in the first rays of the sun as a
lone Marine sounds his bugle. The final notes are drowned
out by the rising HOWL of air raid sirens.
SUPER: "MIDWAY ISLAND. JUNE 4, 1942. 0619 HOURS"
A small camera crew is filming the scene, led by JOHN FORD,
47. A MARINE CAPTAIN standing next to Ford gives him a look.

83.
MARINE CAPTAIN
Well, you wanted to see action, Mr.
Ford. I don't think you're going to
be disappointed.
The Marine points to the west, and Ford swings his camera. A
dark cloud of Japanese aircraft are inbound. Anti-aircraft
emplacements burst into action with a deafening roar.
INT. MAIN NAVY BUILDING - CINCPAC OPERATIONS ROOM - DAY
Nimitz paces, arms folded, as his officers do their best to
stay out of his way. An ENSIGN runs into the room.
ENSIGN
Japanese air attack reported on
Midway. And one of our scout planes
just sighted the enemy carriers.
Nimitz locks on the ensign like a cobra.
NIMITZ
Spotted where?
ENSIGN
He reports carriers bearing 320
degrees 180 miles northwest of Midway.
Nimitz half-smiles to himself and then turns to Layton, who
is marking the reported position on the giant chart.
NIMITZ
Well, Layton... you and Rochefort
were only off by five minutes, five
degrees, and five miles.
LAYTON
We'll endeavor to do better next
time, sir.
Another ghost of a smile from Nimitz. Then -NIMITZ
Give Spruance the enemy position and
tell him to attack.
LAYTON
Midway has already launched their B26s and a squadron of Marine divebombers. They should be approaching
the Japanese carriers.
STAFF OFFICER
The Marines just got those planes a
few days ago. Do they actually know
how to fly them?
Nimitz's blue eyes bore into the officer, who suddenly wishes
that he was a thousand miles away.

84.
NIMITZ
If I know the Marines, they'll do
their damnedest.
INT. HENDERSON'S SBD - DAY
MAJOR HENDERSON, 35, stares out the cockpit window. The entire
Japanese carrier task force stretches ahead of him. As
Henderson flicks the toggle of his radio, we note the Marine
Corp patch on his arm and the olive-drab color of his uniform.
MAJOR HENDERSON
Beginning my run. Stay on me.
Henderson gently pushes his flight stick forward, but just
as the aircraft begins to drop -RAT-TAT-TAT! The sound of an automatic cannon rattles our
eardrums. Henderson looks right just in time to see his main
gas tank ignite in a blinding fireball.
TAMON'S POV - SKY
We're watching the incoming American attack through a pair
of binoculars. The fireball that used to be Henderson's plane
is surrounded by a dozen other SBDs, which are under vicious
assault by at least ten Japanese Zeroes.
Another SBD abruptly dips its wing and falls toward the ocean,
trailing black smoke. And then another.
INT. HIRYU - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
Tamon stands at the window in the cramped space, staring
through mounted spotting binoculars. Henderson's entire
squadron is coming straight for his ship.
CAPTAIN KAKU TOMEO, 48, peers over Tamon's shoulder. Kaku is
a burly man with a narrow mustache over his scowling mouth.
KAKU
Why are they attacking at such a
shallow angle?
TAMON
They're glide bombing. Which means
they're amateurs.
Tamon lowers his binoculars and looks at the helmsman.
TAMON (CONT'D)
Prepare for evasive action. Even
amateurs can get lucky.
EXT. HIRYU - ANTI-AIRCRAFT BATTERY - DAY
The five-inch guns along the ship's port side swing into
position in unison and belch shells into the sky. One of the
approaching planes loses control and drops like a stone, but
the others gamely continue their runs until...

85.
...black objects drop toward us. Bombs. The deck tilts as
the carrier turns at high speed.
EXT. AKAGI - DAY
The men on the deck gasp as Hiryu disappears behind a set of
enormous water spouts. Has she been hit?
INT. HIRYU - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
Men take cover as a wall of water hammers into the windows
of the bridge. The ship lurches. And then...
Silence. Just the dim hum of the carrier's engines. As the
other man gather themselves, they realize that Tamon is still
standing watch at the window. He points to the south.
TAMON
Look.
We follow his finger and SMASH ZOOM toward a smoke trail in
the sky. It's a B-26 flaming from its left wing. The plane
is in a shallow dive, headed straight for the central island
of the Akagi.
Muzzles flash as Japanese gunners desperately unload with
everything in their arsenal. The officers on the bridge stare
up at the bomber, mouths agape in astonishment, until -WHOOSH! The plane's wing explodes and it veers hard to the
right -- missing the bridge by mere yards -- before smashing
into the sea. But we stay with...
INT. AKAGI - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
Nagumo stands with his stunned flag officers. Genda, the
arrogant air commander, glances incredulously at his admiral.
GENDA
Was he trying to hit us?
ADMIRAL NAGUMO
Americans aren't that brave. His
controls must have locked up.
Nagumo's words are dismissive, but his tone makes it clear
that he is rattled. He thinks for a long moment. Then -ADMIRAL NAGUMO (CONT'D)
Those planes came from Midway, which
means it's still a threat. We must
launch a second attack.
GENDA
But Admiral Yamamoto ordered us to
keep our reserve force aboard in
case we encounter enemy carriers.
Nagumo flushes with anger.

86.
ADMIRAL NAGUMO
Yamamoto is hundreds of miles away
in his battleship. It's my decision.
And that island must be neutralized.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - MESS HALL - DAY
The SBD pilots, dressed in their flight suits, eat breakfast
at a long table. The food is like sawdust in most of their
mouths, but not Best -- he's eating with gusto.
As Best finishes his plate, he notices that Dickinson has
barely touched his eggs.
BEST
Get something in your stomach. It's
going to be a long day.
Dickinson looks at him as if he's an alien, and Best abruptly
registers the mood in the room. The man from the beginning
of our story would return to eating his food...
...but Best pulls a silver ring off his finger and tosses it
on the table. The other men stare at it, confused.
BEST (CONT'D)
That belonged to Cliff Janz. When I
decided to become a pilot, Cliff
made me swap class rings. He said
I'd be lucky to live to thirty, and
he wanted to have something to
remember me by. That's the kind of
guy he was. Always busting your chops.
(beat)
Cliff was aboard Arizona. His wife
didn't even get a body to bury.
The words hang in the air. Best pans the faces at the table.
BEST (CONT'D)
I'm not going to sugarcoat it, boys.
Nobody thinks we can go toe-to-toe
with the Japanese, not in a fair
fight. And today we're going to be
big underdogs.
Best stares around the table, his confidence and determination
blazing from his eyes.
BEST (CONT'D)
Me... I think the men in this room
can fly with anyone. Maybe that's
because I'm a cocky son-of-a-bitch.
But it's also because I know all of
you like brothers. I've seen what
you can do. You're ready for this.
(MORE)

87.
BEST (CONT'D)
(beat)
Today we get square with the same
bastards who bombed Pearl. Today we
prove the American Navy isn't a joke.
The pilots silently absorb his words. Dickinson finally nods,
his own swelling confidence obvious in his expression.
DICKINSON
We're going to give 'em a shellacking.
EXT. PACIFIC OCEAN - DAY
The Enterprise is about five miles away as she swings into
the wind, her escorts turning to match her new heading.
A shape abruptly flashes past us and then disappears into a
cloud: it's a seaplane marked with the rising sun.
INT. AKAGI - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
A RADIOMAN listens intently to his headset and then leaps to
his feet. He salutes in the direction of Nagumo.
JAPANESE RADIOMAN
Sir! A report from one of our aerial
scouts. Ten enemy surface units
spotted. Position east northeast.
Nagumo furrows his brow.
ADMIRAL NAGUMO
Impossible. Why would enemy ships be
east northeast?
GENDA
Unless it's a trap.
The words hang in the air -- everyone in this room remembers
the debacle during the war games. But Nagumo quickly regains
his blustery confidence.
ADMIRAL NAGUMO
We will rearm our planes and then
smash this new threat.
INT. HIRYU - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
Tamon stares through binoculars at a flashing signal light
from Akagi. He shakes his head, face contorted in frustration.
TAMON
We should launch our reserve force
now. But the old fool wants to wait.
Everyone on the bridge avoids Tamon's dark gaze -- except
Kaku, who tries to play the peacemaker.

88.
KAKU
He's following doctrine. It's always
better to launch a balanced attack.
TAMON
I know the doctrine. But an admiral is
supposed to lead, not follow.
A WARNING BUZZER sounds through the bridge.
RADIOMAN
Sir! Periscope spotted.
Tamon raises his binoculars. He locks on a cruiser and two
destroyers a few miles away, which have turned hard and are
accelerating toward a fixed point in the ocean.
Several columns of spray spout into the air, followed by the
dull boom of depth charges. Tamon shakes his head.
TAMON
An American submarine right in the
middle of our fleet. Like a cat in
the henhouse.
Tamon watches the giant waterspouts from the depth charges
and then turns to the signalman.
TAMON (CONT'D)
Order a destroyer to stay and pin it
down. They can catch up once the rest
of the fleet is safely out of range.
EXT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLIGHT DECK - DAY
As the SBD pilots stride to their planes, Best locks on a
pair of ENSIGNS half-carrying a pilot toward one of the torpedo
bombers. Best looks closer, revealing that the pilot is...
Lindsey. His face is drawn with pain, and he's wincing with
every step. Best glances at the waiting torpedo bomber -realizing that Lindsey is literally being carried to his
plane -- and then veers into his path.
BEST
You don't have to fly today. Nobody
will doubt your courage.
Lindsey shakes his head, jaw clenched with determination.
LINDSEY
This is what we trained for. I'll
lead my squadron in.
Best blinks, abruptly realizing how badly he has misjudged
his counterpart. And he's a big enough man to say...
BEST
Good luck, Lindsey.

89.
LINDSEY
Thanks. We're going to need it.
Best draws himself up and gives Lindsey a salute. Lindsey
nods back at him in a silent exchange of respect.
LINDSEY (CONT'D)
I'll meet you at the Japanese fleet.
INT. BEST'S SBD - DAY
As Best revs his engine to prepare for takeoff, the radioman
of the plane in front of him catches his eye: Bruno Gaido.
He raises his arms, hands clasped in a victory salute, as
his SBD accelerates down the deck.
Best smiles and then flips his intercom.
BEST
Well, Murray. This is it.
And then Best guns the throttle. As soon as the SBD is
airborne, he fastens his oxygen mask and spins the dial on
the oxygen cylinder --- but as the mix begins to flow he violently coughs and
rips the mask away from his face. Murray hears the noise.
MURRAY
Are you okay, sir?
BEST
Dammit all to hell... it's my oxygen
cylinder. I've got a bad mix.
As Murray processes the words, he tries -- and fails -- to
contain his relief.
MURRAY
We have to go back to Enterprise.
Best's brow furrows as he considers his options. Murray
longingly stares back at the carrier behind them -- a relative
bastion of safety -- and tries to press the point home.
MURRAY (CONT'D)
You can't breathe a bad mix, sir. It
will tear up your lungs.
BEST
I'm not sending the squadron out
there without their commander.
And then Best reaches up and fastens the mask back across
his face. As the oxygen flows, his body is wracked by coughs.
But Best ignores the burning in his lungs and grips the stick.
There's no fucking way he's turning back.

90.
EXT. HIRYU - FLIGHT DECK - DAY
LIEUTENANT TOMONAGA, 32, climbs out of his B5N bomber. He
notices Tamon striding toward the plane and snaps to attention.
TAMON
We've spotted enemy ships. Re-arm
with torpedoes as quickly as possible.
A SHOUT from a lookout interrupts the conversation.
JAPANESE LOOKOUT
Incoming!
Tamon's head snaps around and he follows the lookout's
outstretched finger to a glint of metal high in the sky. A
squadron of B-17s are droning toward them.
LT. TOMONAGA
Land based bombers. Maybe from Hawaii.
Tamon watches with professional detachment as the bombers
open their bay doors. Shapes plummet toward the carrier...
...but from that altitude the bombs are in the air for almost
thirty seconds. The carrier swings into a tight turn and the
bombs explode harmlessly in the sea a few hundred yards away
from the deck. Tomonaga shrugs, unimpressed.
LT. TOMONAGA (CONT'D)
They'll never hit us from that
altitude.
Tamon speaks over his shoulder as he starts back toward the
carrier's island. His frustration is apparent.
TAMON
Maybe not. But these constant attacks -inept as they might be -- are keeping
us on the defensive.
INT. BEST'S SBD - DAY
Best flies with one hand on the stick and the other holding
a pair of binoculars to his eyes. As he sweeps back and forth
across the desolate ocean -BEST
Either we got a bum sighting report
or the Japs changed course.
This isn't bad news to Murray. Best, meanwhile, glances out
the window at the rest of the squadron. We follow his gaze
and ZOOM to another SBD about a mile away -INT. MCCLUSKY'S SBD - CONTINUOUS
McClusky swings his own binoculars over the ocean, as
frustrated as Best. But then he locks on a spot to the north.

91.
MCCLUSKY
We got something.
The binoculars reveal the wake of a ship heading north at
flank speed -- the destroyer that was pinning down the
American submarine. McClusky's RADIOMAN speaks in his ear.
RADIOMAN (V.O.)
What is it?
MCCLUSKY
Looks like a Jap destroyer. What do
you want to bet she's trying to catch
up with the carriers?
McClusky turns the stick and the SBD banks to match the course
of the Japanese destroyer.
RADIOMAN (V.O.)
How long can we follow her course
before we run out of fuel?
MCCLUSKY
Not long.
This decision weighs heavily on McClusky -- he knows that
he's betting an awful lot on a hunch.
INT. LINDSEY'S TBD - DAY
Lindsey flies just a few hundred feet above the ocean, the
rest of his squadron trailing off his wing tips. A smudge of
smoke appears on the horizon, and Lindsey stares at it for a
long moment before keying his radio.
LINDSEY
There they are.
INT. THATCH'S WILDCAT - DAY
Thatch's six-fighter squadron flies at eight thousand feet.
From this altitude he can see both Lindsey's torpedo squadron
and the Japanese ships on the horizon. His radio crackles.
FIGHTER PILOT (V.O.)
Any word from the dive bombers?
THATCH
Negative. I think they flew a
different heading.
FIGHTER PILOT (V.O.)
What are we going to do? Those torpedo
bombers are sitting ducks.
THATCH
Which is why we're going to attract
as much attention as possible.

92.
INT. GAY'S TBD - DAY
Gay stares fixedly at the smoke, which we can now see is
coming from the stacks of various warships. Lindsey's voice
echoes through his headset.
LINDSEY
Hammer attack on the closest carrier.
Follow my lead.
Gay banks to the right as his squadron splits into two pieces.
His RADIOMAN speaks through the intercom.
RADIOMAN (V.O.)
You think they've seen us?
GAY
When they see us, we'll know it.
Gay pushes his throttle wide open and the drone of the engine
rises in intensity. He glances down at the airspeed indicator,
which is barely over a hundred MPH.
GAY (CONT'D)
Come on, you bitch.
BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! The windscreen and instrument panel explode
in a shower of glass. Gay catches just a glimpse of the
speeding Zero -- it came out of the sun -- and then his plane
shudders under another barrage.
Gay instinctively tries to bank the plane, but the stick is
dead in his hand. He jiggles it, helpless. Then -GAY (CONT'D)
Brace for impact!
Gay manages to cover his head just as the plane slams into
the water like a cement wall. He's hurled against the
dashboard and then slumps back in his seat, dazed. Before he
can gather himself -PING! PING! Bullets rattle against the exterior of the SBD,
followed by the roar of a Mitsibushi engine -- the Zeroes
are strafing the downed plane.
The sound galvanizes Gay. He tears off his strap and then
turns to the back of the bomber.
GAY (CONT'D)
Hey! We gotta -The words catch in Gay's throat as he realizes that his
radioman and tail gunner have been shredded by gunfire. For
an instant he is frozen by the horrific sight, but the roar
of an engine forecasts another attack.
Gay grabs the edge of the cockpit and swings himself overboard
into the ocean --

93.
-- and suddenly it's silent. The bright white streaks of
bullets penetrate the turquoise sea like harpoons as Gay
swims under the body of the aircraft for shelter.
He holds his breath, eyes bulging and hands clutching the
aluminum. What the hell is he going to do now?
EXT. PACIFIC OCEAN - DAY
High above Gay's downed plane the six Wildcats of Thatch's
squadron dogfight with at least twenty Zeroes -- the Japanese
pilots actually have to line up to take shots at them.
One of the Wildcats is hit and drops toward the ocean,
trailing black smoke from its engine.
FIGHTER PILOT (V.O.)
Jesus. They're everywhere.
INT. THATCH'S WILDCAT - DAY
Thatch fights off the G-forces as he pulls his fighter into
a tight turn. A Zero passes through his sights and he snaps
off a quick shot before yelling into his radio.
THATCH
Form on me, boys. We're going to try
that weave.
INT. LINDSEY'S TBD - DAY
Flak bursts off the right wingtip. Lindsey ignores it, his
eyes locked on a Japanese carrier just two thousand yards in
front of his plane. The ship is speeding away from him, white
water boiling from its stern.
RADIOMAN (V.O.)
Sir! Can we drop?
It's not a question; it's a plea. But Lindsey is intent on
finishing his attack, and so he stays focused on the carrier.
EXT. PACIFIC OCEAN - DAY
The four remaining Wildcats have formed into pairs and are
crossing back and forth across each other's tails as the
dozens of Zeroes swarm around them.
A Zero comes in for a pass on one of the Wildcat's tails,
but just before it can get off a clean shot --- a trailing Wildcat swings into position and opens fire.
The lightly-armored Zero explodes into flame and drops like
a rock toward the ocean.
INT. THATCH'S WILDCAT - DAY
Thatch works the stick, his head on a swivel. A victory YELP
comes through his radio.

94.
FIGHTER PILOT (V.O.)
Scratch another Zero.
THATCH
Attaboy. Only twenty more to go.
The comment is punctuated by a Zero swinging into Thatch's
sights. He takes the shot and watches with satisfaction as
pieces fly off the right wing of the Japanese plane. But
then he pans the sky.
THATCH (CONT'D)
We can't hold them forever. Where
the hell are those dive bombers?
INT. LINDSEY'S TBD - DAY
The Hiryu has grown in the windscreen and is now less than a
thousand yards away. Lindsey stares through his sight like a
man possessed, one hand clutching the torpedo release.
LINDSEY
This is for Pearl Harbor.
And then he yanks the lever. The plane lurches upward as the
heavy torpedo barrels into the sea.
RADIOMAN
Now can we get out of here, sir?
BOOM! A cannon shell explodes in the right fuel tank. Lindsey
turns his head just in time for his face to be illuminated
by the ferocious explosion.
The expression on his face is a mixture of resignation and
acceptance. He did his duty.
EXT. HIRYU - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
Tamon watches as Lindsey's TBD is ripped apart by the
explosion. As the fragments fall into the sea -TAMON
Brave men. We are fortunate they
have such bad planes.
Tamon turns his attention to a white streak bubbling toward
the stern of the carrier.
TAMON (CONT'D)
Right full rudder.
The helmsman obeys his command and Hiryu pivots, the torpedo
passing harmlessly through the wake.
Tamon, meanwhile, raises his binoculars. A pack of Zeroes
circles low off the ocean, searching in vain for more torpedo
bombers to attack. A second pack is still taking a run at
Thatch and his wingmen. Tamon grunts, frustrated.

95.
TAMON (CONT'D)
Our fighters need to stop glory
hunting. They're all too low.
(beat)
This last attack was also carrier-based
aircraft. Which means we are facing
the exact situation that Nagumo declared
impossible during our war games.
This revelation sends a chill through the room. Tamon turns
to the signal officer.
TAMON (CONT'D)
The time for diplomacy is over. Signal
the flagship.
INT. AKAGI - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
A SIGNAL OFFICER stares through binoculars at a flashing
light on the bridge of Hiryu and then turns to Nagumo.
SIGNAL OFFICER
A message from Admiral Yamaguchi,
sir. 'Consider it advisable to launch
attack force immediately.'
As the words register with Nagumo, he flushes with anger.
ADMIRAL NAGUMO
What does he think I'm trying to do?
(to Genda)
What's our status?
INT. AKAGI - HANGAR - DAY
Mechanics furiously repair and refuel planes as munitions
teams rush from the magazine elevator with armor-piercing
bombs and torpedoes. Gas lines weave back and forth across
the deck among discarded high-explosive bombs.
This hanger is one tiny spark away from catastrophe.
The DECK OFFICER holds a phone to his ear.
DECK OFFICER
We're going as fast as we can, sir.
But it takes time to change from
land weapons to sea weapons.
GENDA (V.O.)
You have five minutes.
INT. AKAGI - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
Genda turns to Nagumo and gives him a smart salute.
GENDA
They're almost finished.

96.
ADMIRAL NAGUMO
Good. We will launch a full attack
and crush the enemy task force.
A piercing WHISTLE abruptly seizes the attention of everyone
on the bridge. A SPOTTER high on a mast outside the island
is pointing at the sky. The word carries clearly...
SPOTTER
Helldivers!!!
Nagumo rushes to the window and cranes his head upwards. A
swarm of black dots are hovering above the carrier directly
behind them in the formation (Kaga).
Nagumo stares up at them, stunned. Oh, shit.
INT. BEST'S SBD - DAY
The Japanese fleet lies below the Enterprise's thirty-one
SBDs without a single enemy fighter to oppose them. Best
gauges the four carriers (they're in a box formation) and
then keys his radio.
BEST
All right, boys. It's payback time.
Yorktown's squadron will take the
far two carriers, so we're on the
near ones. Scouting Six, we've got
the first bastard in line.
Best yanks on his diving flaps, and the plane immediately
slows. But then --- a SBD flashes ahead of him. The lead squadron has also
started to dive. Best yanks on the stick and manages to avoid
a mid-air collision by mere feet. As they flatten back out,
Murray shouts from the back seat.
MURRAY (V.O.)
What the hell? McClusky was supposed
to hit the far carrier!
Best ignores him and glances out the window -- his two wingmen
are still attached. He keys his radio again.
BEST
Stay on me.
INT. MCCLUSKY'S SBD - DAY
The plane drops at terminal velocity toward the carrier.
McClusky peers through his bombing sight, working the controls
to keep the "x" centered on the red dot squarely amidships.
His RADIOMAN shouts from the back seat.
RADIOMAN
Twenty two hundred... two thousand...

97.
EXT. PACIFIC OCEAN - DAY
Gay clutches a piece of wreckage as he bobs in the water
squarely in the center of the Japanese fleet. His eyes are
locked on a thin line of black dots descending toward the
Kaga. He whispers the words like a prayer.
GAY
Come on, baby. Come on...
INT. MCCLUSKY'S SBD - DAY
The carrier's deck is rushing toward us as McClusky fights
to keep the sight centered. The radioman shouts a warning -RADIOMAN
Eighteen hundred!
McClusky yanks the release and then immediately pulls the
stick. His body stiffens as the G-forces hit him, but he
manages to peek over his shoulder...
...just in time to see his bomb hit the water ten yards from
Kaga's bridge. McClusky curses -- he missed.
INT. DICKINSON'S SBD - DAY
Dickinson is late in the line of planes. Just as he starts
his dive, he sees McClusky's waterspout. He locks on his
bomb sight, speaking to himself.
DICKINSON
Come on, Dickinson. Do what you're
paid to do.
Dickinson is halfway down to the carrier when he sees the
deck ripple -- someone has planted his bomb squarely on the
target. But Dickinson keeps his focus until...
RADIOMAN
Eighteen hundred!
The plane lurches as Dickinson releases.
EXT. PACIFIC OCEAN - DAY
As Gay watches, a quick cavalcade of bombs slam into Kaga.
Her deck erupts in a series of explosions, and Gay punches
the water, celebrating as if he's at a football game.
GAY
Yeah! Hell yeah!
INT. HIRYU - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
The officers stare at Kaga, stunned. A collective groan goes
up from the group -- no ship could survive that barrage. A
panicked JUNIOR OFFICER abruptly points out the opposing
window, his tone bordering on the hysterical.

98.
JUNIOR OFFICER
Look! Akagi is also under attack!
Tamon gives the man a sharp glance.
TAMON
Calm yourself. You're an officer.
But Tamon can't contain his own wince as he sees the first
pair of bombs hit Akagi. Steam immediately rises from the
aft elevator as the ship's turbines are breached. She's dead
in the water -- and another dozen planes are descending.
Tamon grunts to himself and then hurries out onto -EXT. HIRYU - FLAG BRIDGE - CONTINUOUS
He scans the sky above his ship, but sees no planes. Kaku
appears next to him, eyes panning back and forth between the
two stricken carriers.
KAKU
That leaves just us and Akagi.
Tamon points at the sky above Akagi -- three lonely dots are
approaching at fifteen thousand feet.
TAMON
Unless they hit.
INT. BEST'S SBD - DAY
Best bores through the sky, eyes locked on the Akagi far
below. She's at flank speed in a maximum starboard turn.
The radio crackles in his ear -- it's his WINGMAN.
WINGMAN (V.O.)
Feeling a little lonely, sir. Wish
we'd brought more planes to the party.
BEST
You always wanted to be a hero,
Kroeger. This is your chance.
Best hits the diving flaps. As the SBD rolls onto its back,
Best speaks into the intercom.
BEST (CONT'D)
Okay, Murray. We put that carrier
out of action even if we have to
crash on her deck.
We catch a brief glimpse of Murray's terrified face as the
plane begins to plummet toward the ocean.
EXT. AKAGI - ANTI-AIRCRAFT STATION - DAY
Lookouts scream as the gun barrels swing upward toward the
sky above the ship.

99.
Three lonely planes are diving at an impossibly-steep angle
in a V formation.
The guns fire in a ferocious fusillade.
INT. BEST'S SBD - DAY
The plane vibrates as flak explodes on either side. But Best
ignores it, icy eyes locked on his bombsight.
MURRAY (V.O.)
Two thousand... eighteen hundred!
We expect Best to yank the lever. But he's motionless, hands
making tiny adjustments on the stick.
MURRAY (V.O.) (CONT'D)
Sixteen hundred!
There's no mistaking the tone of Murray's voice: sir, drop
the goddamned bomb and let's get the hell out of here! But
Best ignores him, totally focused on his target.
INT. AKAGI - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
Nagumo stares up at the trio of planes. The first two have
pulled up, their ordinance released. One bomb splashes to
the left of the bridge, sending up a sheet of water. The
second misses a dozen feet off the stern.
But the middle plane just continues to dive. It's so close
that Nagumo can hear the drone of its engine and see the
red, white and blue insignia on the wings.
Is this maniac going to crash into his fucking ship?
And then the pitch of the engine changes and the plane pulls
out of its dive with a reluctant howl. An instant later Nagumo
sees the bomb. It looks as if it's coming straight at him.
Nagumo instinctively ducks...
...and the bomb detonates at the aft edge of the middle
elevator. A blinding FLASH illuminates the bridge, followed
by a percussion wave that hurls men to the ground.
INT. BEST'S SBD - DAY
The plane finally pulls level just a few dozen feet above
the ocean. Murray strains against the G-forces to hold the
rear-mounted .30 cals in place.
His eyes widen as he sees planes being blown off the deck by
the bomb, and then he unleashes a rebel yell.
MURRAY
Ye-haw! That was a beaut, sir. Right
on her deck.
BOOM! A giant waterspout rises next to the plane -- ten
stories high and nearly solid.

100.
One of the nearby Japanese cruisers is firing into the ocean.
Best wrestles the stick, zigging the plane back and forth.
Flak bursts around them along with another enormous pair of
waterspouts. Best abruptly pulls back --- and they soar over a Japanese destroyer, close enough
that they can see the surprised faces of the AA gunners.
The plane drops back down toward the waves, and suddenly
it's eerily quiet. Best scans the horizon ahead of them and
sees nothing but open ocean.
BEST
Any fighters on our tail?
Murray nervously scans the sky and then exhales with relief.
MURRAY
No, sir. They must be chasing other
people.
INT. BRUNO'S SBD - DAY
Bruno Gaido swings his .30 cal back and forth, hammering
bullets at a Zero on his tail. The enemy fighter drops out
of range and Bruno pans the sky for another target. LT.
O'FLAHERTY (his pilot) speaks in his headset.
LT. O'FLAHERTY (V.O.)
We're running out of fuel.
Bruno glances out at the left wing and sees a stream of liquid
illuminated by the midday sun.
BRUNO
We've been hit. Left wing.
And that's when the engine conks out. As Bruno registers the
unsettling silence, O'Flaherty shouts from the front seat.
LT. O'FLAHERTY
We're going in!
Bruno braces himself as the plane's nose pitches down and
the ocean comes rushing toward them. At the last moment
O'Flaherty pulls up and the belly hits the ocean in a textbook
water landing, but Bruno slams his head against the guns.
Bruno nevertheless jumps out onto the wing, bleeding from a
cut above his eye. A moment later O'Flaherty joins him,
clutching a bag that contains an inflatable raft. In the
distance two Zeroes are chasing another SBD.
Bruno gives the raft a dry glance.
BRUNO
Guess we're going to have to float
back to Pearl.

101.
INT. MCCLUSKY'S SBD - DAY
They're speeding just twenty feet above the water. McClusky
weaves back and forth between a pair of Zeroes, trying to
keep them from getting a clean shot.
The radioman glances at Bruno's floating SBD in the distance.
RADIOMAN
O'Flaherty and Bruno are down.
MCCLUSKY
If you don't hit one of those damn
Zeroes, we're going to join them.
A Zero begins its firing run, and McClusky turns to port,
his wingtip just feet above the waves. Bullets riddle the
the SBD and McClusky grunts in pain -- a round has slammed
into his shoulder.
The radioman, meanwhile, gets a bead on the Zero and hammers
bullets into its exposed belly as it flashes past them. The
Japanese pilot loses control and slams into the sea.
The radioman immediately wheels with the .30 cals, but the
other Zero has had enough and peels away. The radioman blinks -surprised to be alive -- and then clicks the intercom.
RADIOMAN
You okay, sir?
McClusky ignores the question, teeth gritted in pain. He
glances down at his wrecked instrument panel.
MCCLUSKY
Pray we've got enough fuel to get
home to Enterprise.
INT. JAPANESE ZERO - DAY
A Japanese pilot stares down at his gas gauge, which is
flickering near empty, and then glances below him at the
stricken Kaga. His landing strip is burning from end-to-end.
As the plane passes through a column of smoke, we TILT and
then DROP toward the carrier's deck. Giant wood planks are
scattered like Lincoln Logs. We continue to PUSH downward
through the largest hole into -INT. KAGA - HANGAR DECK - DAY
It's like a scene from Dante's Inferno. Swirls of heavy smoke
reveal twisted metal and mangled human remains. The injured
lie moaning with nobody to help them as the able-bodied pass
buckets of water in a grim chain.
A LIEUTENANT descends into the hellscape on a rope. As soon
as his feet hit the deck, the overwhelmed DAMAGE CONTROL
OFFICER rushes to his side.

102.
DAMAGE CONTROL OFFICER
What are the captain's orders?
JAPANESE LIEUTENANT
A bomb hit the bridge. They're all
dead. It's up to us to save the ship.
As the men continue talking, we follow the chain of buckets
toward the forward elevator. Bombs and torpedoes lie among
the wreckage -- thousands of pounds of TNT -- and aviation
fuel drips from ruptured lines.
DAMAGE CONTROL OFFICER (V.O.)
The gasoline is vaporizing.
JAPANESE LIEUTENANT (V.O.)
Activate the C02.
DAMAGE CONTROL OFFICER (V.O.)
We have no power.
The man at the end of the chain hurls his bucket of filthylooking liquid down the elevator shaft. As it lands with a
hiss amid red-hot metal, we FOCUS on a stream of gasoline
running down the far side of the shaft.
The bottom droplet bubbles and then vaporizes with a hiss.
An instant later there's a brilliant flash.
EXT. AKAGI - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
Men stare in horror as a massive fuel-air explosion nearly
splits Kaga in half. An orange mushroom cloud rises from
amidships, followed in quick succession by a series of smaller
blasts as the loose torpedoes and bombs detonate.
We PAN to reveal that the men aboard Akagi have their own
problems; flames are rippling up from the center elevator.
The fire has ignited a Zero, which burns like a torch.
The heavy smoke washes over Nagumo. He stands next to the
ship's compass, stunned into a state of utter shock. Genda
screws up his courage and approaches him.
GENDA
Sir, we must go.
Nagumo turns his dazed eyes to Genda.
ADMIRAL NAGUMO
I have to save the ship.
GENDA
It's the captain's job to save the
ship. Your duty is to lead. And you
can't do that from here.

103.
EXT. AKAGI - DECK - DAY
The Japanese senior officers are lowered one-by-one from the
burning ship into a waiting launch. Nagumo's feet dangle
awkwardly in the air as he clutches the rope.
He looks utterly beaten.
INT. MAIN NAVY BUILDING - CINCPAC OPERATIONS ROOM - DAY
Nimitz paces back and forth, his legendary calm under assault
from the stress of waiting for news. Layton approaches him
and speaks under his breath.
LAYTON
Do you want us to contact Admiral
Spruance?
NIMITZ
He can't break radio silence. And
I'm sure he has plenty on his mind.
(beat)
But this is torture.
The words hang in the air until the door bursts open and
Rochefort runs inside. He waves a slip of paper.
ROCHEFORT
We just intercepted a Japanese signal.
We can't translate the body. But
look at the call sign.
Rochefort slaps the paper on the table, his finger pointing
at a short string of letters and numbers.
ROCHEFORT (CONT'D)
It's from Admiral Nagumo. But he's
not transmitting from the Kaga. He's
transmitting from a cruiser.
LAYTON
Why would Nagumo leave his flagship
unless...
A glint appears in Nimitz's eye.
NIMITZ
...the Kaga is sinking.
A charge runs through the men in the room as they absorb the
words. Could it be true?
EXT. PACIFIC OCEAN - ESTABLISHING
The battleship Yamato cuts through dense fog, impossibly
powerful and imposing.
SUPER: "400 MILES WEST OF MIDWAY"

104.
INT. YAMATO - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
Yamamoto pores over a map, brow furrowed. An AIDE strides
into the room, face grim, and hands him a message.
AIDE
From Admiral Nagumo.
Yamamoto snatches the message and quickly scans the
characters. The corner of his mouth twitches. But his face
is otherwise stone.
The other officers are desperate to know what the message
contains, but nobody dares speak. Yamamoto turns and stares
out the window at the impenetrable fog. Finally -YAMAMOTO
The Americans knew we were coming.
We walked into their trap.
The officers exchange an incredulous look: can that possibly
be true? Yamamoto takes a slow breath.
YAMAMOTO (CONT'D)
We can still win. But we must know
what we're facing.
EXT. PACIFIC OCEAN - DAY
Bruno and O'Flaherty bob in their small raft. Bruno shields
his eyes against the sun as he stares at an approaching ship.
BRUNO
It's a destroyer.
LT. O'FLAHERTY
American or Jap?
Bruno takes a hard look. He doesn't like what he sees.
BRUNO
It's the Japs. And I don't think
they're gunna be in a very good mood
after what we did to their ships.
EXT. JAPANESE DESTROYER - FANTAIL - DAY
Bruno and O'Flaherty stand against the rear rail, surrounded
by Japanese sailors. Their hands are bound and five-gallon
drums of gasoline are lashed to their feet.
A young Japanese LIEUTENANT speaks in broken English.
JAPANESE LIEUTENANT
Where you come from?
BRUNO
Shangri-La.

105.
Bruno says it with a straight face. The lieutenant turns to
his captain, and they have a short and intense exchange in
Japanese. The lieutenant turns back to the Americans.
JAPANESE LIEUTENANT
You tell us your ships. Or we throw
you overboard.
O'Flaherty blanches. Bruno stares back at the lieutenant and
then flicks his head at one of the sailors who is smoking.
BRUNO
Cigarette.
The lieutenant turns to the sailor and speaks in Japanese.
An instant later the lit cigarette is stuck between Bruno's
lips. He takes a deep drag, eyes locked on the captain.
BRUNO (CONT'D)
You know, I had a lot of friends at
Pearl Harbor.
Bruno exhales, smoke blowing in the wind.
BRUNO (CONT'D)
So how about you go fuck yourself.
The captain doesn't wait for the translation -- he hears
everything he needs to know in Bruno's tone. He snaps his
fingers at his men.
Bruno doesn't try to struggle. He just stares down the captain
as they lift him over the rail and dump him into the Pacific:
a portrait in courage to the end.
When he's gone, the lieutenant turns to O'Flaherty.
JAPANESE LIEUTENANT
You. Tell us your ships.
EXT. HIRYU - FLIGHT DECK - DAY
Tamon stands in the center of a circle of grim-faced pilots.
Their planes are spotted for launch on the deck behind him.
TAMON
We are facing three American carriers.
You are the last intact aircraft unit
in the fleet, so the fate of Japan
rests on your skill. The Emperor expects
you to do your duty.
The men nod -- the moment is too serious for cheering -- and
then start for their planes.
EXT. PACIFIC OCEAN - DAY
Hiryu steams into the wind, Val bombers launching from her
deck. The three other Japanese carriers blaze in the
background as a reminder of the stakes.

106.
EXT. USS YORKTOWN - FLIGHT DECK - DAY
As Thatch swings out of his Wildcat onto the deck, the FLIGHT
DECK OFFICER gives him a salute.
FLIGHT DECK OFFICER
Welcome back to the Yorktown, sir.
The officer's eyes widen as he gets a closer look at the
bullet holes in Thatch's plane.
FLIGHT DECK OFFICER (CONT'D)
Jeez... did you take on the whole
Jap Navy by yourself?
THATCH
Sure felt like it.
The dull THUD of distant explosions turns their heads -- the
carrier's escorts are firing flak at a pack of swiftlyapproaching dark dots in the sky. Incoming aircraft.
THATCH (CONT'D)
Swing me around.
The deck officer gives him a confused look.
FLIGHT DECK OFFICER
But, sir... you must be almost out
of fuel.
Thatch gives the officer a dry look.
THATCH
I'm not going to need much fuel.
And then he jumps back into his cockpit. The officer WHISTLES
and men rush to turn the plane back toward the bow. A moment
later the Wildcat is roaring down the deck. As it leaps into
the air, Thatch sees a burst of flak to his right.
He banks towards it -- fighting every instinct for selfpreservation -- and spots a Japanese torpedo bomber flying
just a hundred feet above the waves.
Thatch flies straight at the bomber, closing the gap at over
four hundred miles an hour. At the last instant he fires,
and the planes pass within barely a dozen feet of each other.
The Japanese crew stares back at him --- and then Thatch's cockpit is illuminated by an explosion
as the bomber's fuel tank ruptures. Thatch doesn't take even
a moment to celebrate; he just banks his plane looking for
another target.
It's only been ten seconds since he left the Yorktown.
Thatch locks on a dark shape flying close to the water -another torpedo bomber. He pushes into a dive, jamming his
throttle fully open...

107.
...but when he depresses his trigger, nothing happens. His
plane is out of ammo.
THATCH (CONT'D)
Goddammit!
Thatch can only watch in frustration as the bomber drops its
torpedo just eight hundred yards away from the Yorktown. The
deadly fish leaves no wake as it runs toward its target...
THUD! The torpedo strikes the Yorktown directly amidships, a
great geyser of water erupting from her side.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
Spruance stares through binoculars at a distant smudge of
smoke and then grimly shakes his head.
REAR ADMIRAL SPRUANCE
Yorktown's hit. That leaves just us
and Hornet.
CAPTAIN BROWNING
Most of Hornet's air group managed
to get lost and landed at Midway.
Which means it's just us.
REAR ADMIRAL SPRUANCE
What have we got left?
FLAG OFFICER
A couple of SBDs just landed. The
pilots are coming up to report.
Spruance waits, binoculars once again focused on smoke from
the burning Yorktown. Feet clang on the metal stairwell
outside the bridge and then --- Best and McClusky enter. Spruance locks on them.
REAR ADMIRAL SPRUANCE
What news from the enemy fleet?
BEST
Three carriers down. One to go.
REAR ADMIRAL SPRUANCE
And our air group?
Best and McClusky share a glance. This isn't good news.
MCCLUSKY
Only three torpedo bombers came back,
and they're all shot up.
REAR ADMIRAL SPRUANCE
What about the dive bombers?
MCCLUSKY
We can probably scrounge up a dozen.

108.
Spruance isn't an easy man to rattle, but he's stunned by
the stark reality of those numbers. He stares at Best and
McClusky. That's when he notices...
REAR ADMIRAL SPRUANCE
Good God, McClusky. You've been shot.
Everyone on the bridge turns to look. McClusky's uniform is
damp from his shoulder to his cuff, and the skin on the back
of his hand is tinted red with blood.
McClusky shrugs, embarrassed by the attention.
MCCLUSKY
I can fly.
REAR ADMIRAL SPRUANCE
The hell you can. Get your ass down
to the sick bay. Now.
McClusky reluctantly exits the room. Spruance turns his
attention to Best.
REAR ADMIRAL SPRUANCE (CONT'D)
Put the pilots you trust in any plane
that can fly.
BEST
Yes, sir.
As Best turns to exit -REAR ADMIRAL SPRUANCE
Good luck, son.
Best nods and is gone. Spruance stares after him, wondering
whether he's just condemned his remaining pilots to death.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - CORRIDOR - DAY
Best marches down a long corridor, but then stops and leans
against a bulkhead, his body contorting in a brutal series
of wracking coughs. A passing SAILOR gives him a look.
SAILOR
You okay, sir?
Best waves him off and catches his breath before entering -INT. USS ENTERPRISE - PILOT READY ROOM - CONTINUOUS
A half-dozen exhausted pilots sit in silence, staring at the
status board. Two thirds of the planes have been labeled as
either shot down or missing in action. Best glances at a
PILOT, who is updating the chart.
BEST
Dickinson didn't come back?

109.
PILOT
No. Not yet.
Best knows exactly what that means. He takes a slow breath,
trying to gather himself. And then -BEST
I know you boys have just come through
hell. But we've gotta go back and
hit that last carrier.
There's a long moment of silence -- every man knows it's a
miracle that he returned alive from the first mission...
...but then they just stand and file out the door without a
single word of protest. Marching, perhaps, to their doom.
Best watches them go, as proud as he has ever been in his
life. The pilot who spoke glances back at him.
PILOT #2
I'll see if I can find more men.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - ENLISTED MEN QUARTERS - DAY
Murray sits on his bunk in the deserted room, hollow eyes
staring at the wall. Best sticks his head inside.
BEST
Strap up. We're going back out.
MURRAY
I'm sorry, sir. But I think you need
to find someone else.
BEST
What?
The words pour out of Murray in a nervous torrent.
MURRAY
You don't know what it's like to be
in the back seat, sir. There's nothing
I can do but pray. And you fly like
you don't care if we come home.
Best steps into the room, stunned. All he can ask is...
BEST
Why didn't you transfer off my plane?
MURRAY
Because the other guys would have
given me hell. They would have asked
why I was too scared to fly with the
great Dick Best.
As Best stares at Murray -- registering his pain and anxiety -he remembers his exchanges with Willie West.

110.
Best needs Murray in his plane, but he also has grown enough to
understand this isn't a moment for a rah-rah speech; it's a
moment for honesty.
BEST
I want to go home too.
Murray glances up at Best, caught off-guard.
BEST (CONT'D)
I want to spend more than a few days
at a time with my wife. I want to go
fishing with my dad back in Jersey.
I want to see my little girl get
married. And you're right... if we
go back out there, we probably aren't
going to come back.
(beat)
But this is our job. We're the guys
who have to hold the fort until the
cavalry arrives.
Best crouches. He's staring into Murray's eyes.
BEST (CONT'D)
If you really can't fly, I'll find
someone else. But you should get
back in that plane. For yourself.
You'll remember this moment for the
rest of your life. And if you know
that you came through when people
were counting on you... well, you'll
be a different man. You'll be able
to face anything.
Best pauses. Murray can see that he's speaking from the heart,
and he's hanging on every word.
BEST (CONT'D)
We've come this far, Murray. Don't
make me go back out there without you.
Murray thinks for a long moment, his fear wrestling his
loyalty. And then he pushes himself to his feet.
MURRAY
I'll start the inspection.
EXT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLIGHT DECK - DAY
As Best emerges onto the deck, he notices Thatch standing
amid a cluster of pilots. Best walks over to the group and
sticks out his hand.
BEST
Welcome aboard. What are you doing
over here?
As Best and Thatch shake --

111.
THATCH
With Yorktown burning I didn't have
anywhere else to land.
(beat)
I heard you're going back out there.
Want some company?
BEST
The more the merrier.
Thatch flicks his head at the other pilots.
THATCH
Some of my friends from Yorktown
also wouldn't mind getting square.
Best pans the men and then nods, a glint in his eye. His
posse has just doubled in size.
INT. YAMATO - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
Yamamoto studies the map. He finally looks up at his officers;
his air of command has returned.
YAMAMOTO
We will snatch victory from defeat.
Yamamoto's finger juts toward the estimated position of the
American fleet, which is marked with a grease pencil.
YAMAMOTO (CONT'D)
The enemy has lost a carrier and
their air wings are weakened. We
will draw them within range of our
battleships and destroy them. Hiryu
will provide air cover.
The staff officers study the map.
STAFF OFFICER
It's a bold plan.
The other men nod. Yamamoto turns to the signal officer.
YAMAMOTO
Radio Admiral Yamaguchi.
INT. HIRYU - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
Everyone on the bridge watches intently as Tamon reads the
message. He finally looks up.
TAMON
Yamamoto is ordering us to charge.
Like samurai trying to save our honor.
It's clear from Tamon's face that he thinks the plan is
foolish, but an order is an order -- especially from Yamamoto.
He crumples the message.

112.
TAMON (CONT'D)
So it shall be.
EXT. PACIFIC OCEAN - DAY
The golden late-afternoon sun reflects off the tightly-grouped
formation of SBDs. Three towering columns of smoke to the
south serve as a reminder of the morning's battle.
INT. BEST'S SBD - DAY
Best peers through his binoculars. The Hiryu lies nineteen
thousand feet below him, surrounded by a phalanx of
battleships, cruisers and destroyers.
As Best lowers his binoculars, he notices a glint of metal
from an approaching aircraft. He clicks his intercom.
BEST
Get ready, Murray. We're not sneaking
up on them this time.
Best glances down at the Hiryu again, noting from the wake
that she's turning to starboard, and then makes a hand signal
out the window at his wingman.
MURRAY
Here they come!
Tracers streak the air as a dozen Zeroes slam into the
formation. A SBD directly ahead of us explodes -- the
percussion shaking our plane -- and Best pulls up to avoid
the fiery wreckage.
As we emerge on the other side of the smoke, Best realizes
that his wingmen have fallen behind.
BEST
(into radio)
Stay on me, dammit!
And with those final words Best hits his flaps. Meanwhile,
Murray sees a pair of Zeroes locking onto their tail. We
expect him to flinch as usual, but this time he swings the
.30 cals into position and unleashes a barrage...
...just as Best pushes the plane over into a steep dive.
Murray flies out of his seat, weightless, and desperately
grabs the barrel of the guns for support. His skin hisses as
he touches the red-hot metal and Murray yelps in pain --- but then he notices that the Zeroes are still on their
tail. Murray grits his teeth, wedges himself into the cockpit,
and grabs the guns with his burned hands. There's no fear in
his eyes; only determination.
The .30 cals chatter back into action, driving back the
swarming Zeroes. Best's voice rings through the intercom.

113.
BEST (V.O.) (CONT'D)
Murray! Altitude!
MURRAY
We've got Zeroes on our tail.
Best grunts to himself and then glances back and forth between
the bombsight and the rapidly-approaching carrier. Ferocious
flak is bursting on either side of the plane, and the airframe
shakes as fragments piece the wings.
But Best just keeps his eyes locked on his target. Bombs
splash in the water off her starboard side as the elusive
Hiryu tightens her turn to avoid her attackers.
Best touches his flaps, flying by instinct. The sound grows
muffled as he locks on the rising sun painted on the center
of the carrier's deck. We're watching a man utterly in his
element; this is what he was born to do.
EXT. HIRYU - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
Tamon stares up at the dive bombers as they fall from the
sky. He focuses on the plane streaking straight for the center
of his deck. The pilot is silhouetted by the setting sun.
EXT. BEST'S SBD - DAY
Best stares through his windscreen at the bridge. He's barely
twelve hundred feet above the carrier.
MURRAY (V.O.)
I can't shake these damn Zeroes!
Best ignores him and yanks the bomb release lever --- just as another burst of flak explodes practically on
their wing. Best slams into the edge of the cockpit as the
plane violently lurches sideways --- but we FALL with the bomb as it makes a beeline directly
for the center of Hiryu's deck. It strikes the painted insignia
of the red rising sun and pierces the wood like a bullet.
For an instant we get a glimpse of the hangar deck as the
bomb penetrates the ship. And then...
BOOM! The sound is deafening in the enclosed space as planes
and men are hurled away from the cataclysmic explosion.
Dick Best has just become the first (and only) aviator in
history to hit two enemy carriers in one day.
EXT. HIRYU - ANTI-AIRCRAFT BATTERY - DAY
The ship lurches as the explosion rips at her heart. But the
guns keep firing at the attacking SBDs.
One of the planes never pulls out of its dive and SLAMS into
the ocean at terminal velocity.

114.
At that speed the water is like cement, and the plane is
practically vaporized.
Was it Best?
EXT. HIRYU - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
Tamon stand rooted in place, staring in shock at the burning
hole in the center of his flight deck.
He glances up just as the next squadron of SBDs begins their
runs and watches, eerily detached, as one bomb heads straight
for the central elevator. But an instant before it detonates,
Kaku grabs him and pulls him back inside the bridge.
KAKU
Admiral, you must -KA-BOOM! The thousand-pound bomb explodes on the edge of the
elevator. The force of the blast hurls a massive portion of
the lift toward the island --- and it slams into the front of the bridge. The impact
shatters the windows and throws the officers to the floor.
One unfortunate crewmember is ejected out the back balcony
and falls screaming to the ocean below.
The men slowly push themselves to their feet, stunned to be
alive. A firm voice carries through the smoke.
TAMON
Every man on damage control. We must
save this ship.
EXT. PACIFIC OCEAN - DAY
The sun is low on the horizon. The destroyer Phelps bobs a
few hundred feet from the Enterprise as a launch speeds toward
the carrier. In the bow of the launch sits...
...Dickinson. He has a black eye and a bandage on his cheek,
but he's otherwise unharmed.
EXT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLIGHT DECK - DAY
Dickinson scrambles up a ladder and emerges onto the deck.
Mechanics are swarming over the fifteen planes that returned
from the mission, but flight operations have ceased.
McClusky approaches Dickinson, one arm in a sling. He holds
out his other hand. As they shake -MCCLUSKY
You're a sight for sore eyes. What
happened?
DICKINSON
Ran out of fuel twenty miles out.
Ditched next to the Phelps.

115.
MCCLUSKY
Didn't you serve on the Phelps?
DICKINSON
First two years out of the academy.
Funny world...
Dickinson shakes his head, momentarily overwhelmed. It's
been a hell of day. Then -DICKINSON (CONT'D)
Where's Best?
MCCLUSKY
He went back out to hit the last Jap
carrier. Hasn't come home yet.
The news takes the breath out of Dickinson. He turns toward
the low sun and scans the sky for any sign of a plane.
But there's nothing.
EXT. HONOLULU - MCCLUSKY HOUSE - DAY
Ann hurries up the path to a clapboard cottage and knocks on
the door. A moment later LAURA MCCLUSKY, 29, answers.
ANN
You have news?
Laura nods and then ushers Ann into -INT. MCCLUSKY HOUSE - CONTINUOUS
A half-dozen nervous Navy wives are gathered in the living
room. Laura gestures at a woman holding a glass of wine.
LAURA
Cindy heard a rumor from the base.
There's a big battle. One of our
carriers is sinking.
Ann's heart catches in her throat.
ANN
And the pilots?
LAURA
It sounds like we lost a lot of them.
These women have been conditioned for tough times -- stiff
upper lip is their motto -- so Ann forces herself to just
nod. But Laura reads her expression.
LAURA (CONT'D)
Drink?
ANN
Please. I just need to use the
bathroom first.

116.
Ann gives the other wives a tight smile and then walks down
the hall and slips into -INT. MCCLUSKY HOUSE - BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS
Ann closes the door, her hand shaking slightly, and then
stares into the mirror through hollow eyes. She has a
premonition that everything is not going to be okay. And
she's very scared and very alone.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY
Spruance peers down at the map, arms crossed. He finally
turns to Browning.
REAR ADMIRAL SPRUANCE
The Japanese might charge with their
battleships. So we will withdraw for
the night.
CAPTAIN BROWNING
But their fleet might be out of range
in the morning.
REAR ADMIRAL SPRUANCE
Nimitz ordered us to be judicious.
We won a great victory today. Let's
not blow it.
The radar officer abruptly spins in his seat.
RADAR OFFICER
Sir! We got something inbound.
INT. THATCH'S WILDCAT - DAY
Thatch's wary eyes continually scan the sky, exhaustion etched
on his face. His radio crackles:
RADIO (V.O.)
Bogies twenty degrees southwest of
your position. Prepare to intercept.
THATCH
Copy, Enterprise.
Thatch shoves the throttle forward and banks the Wildcat in
a steep turn. He locks on a distant speck in the sky.
THATCH (CONT'D)
I've got visual.
The engine growls as Thatch closes the gap. The speck turns
into a plane, but as his fingers tighten on the trigger
another voice echoes through his radio.
BEST (V.O.)
Hey, Wildcat. You fire at me, and
I'll kick your ass up and down the
big E's deck when we land.

117.
Thatch's face splits in a huge grin.
THATCH
Roger that.
Thatch whips the Wildcat around to fly in formation off the
SBD's wing. He can see Best in his cockpit.
THATCH (CONT'D)
Did you take the scenic route home?
BEST (V.O.)
Wanted to see our morning's work.
THATCH
Well, don't blow your landing.
Everyone's going to be watching.
Best smiles and then gives him a mock salute.
EXT. USS ENTERPRISE - FLIGHT DECK - DAY
The western sky is ablaze with a fiery sunset, perhaps in
honor of the remarkable day. Best's SBD hits the deck and
grabs the first arresting wire, as always.
When the propeller slows to a halt, a crowd of men rush toward
the plane. Dickinson is the first to reach it, and he pulls
himself up to the cockpit.
He and Best stare at each other.
BEST
Thought you were dead.
DICKINSON
They said the same thing about you.
BEST
Glad they were wrong.
The men share a look -- so much unsaid -- and then Dickinson
hands him a flask of whiskey.
DICKINSON
Medicinal. Admiral's orders.
Best jerks his finger at the back seat, where a drained Murray
is unstrapping himself.
BEST
Give it to Murray. He earned it.
Best swings himself out of the cockpit, but as he hits the
deck his knees buckle and he launches into a violent coughing
fit. Dickinson watches with concern.
DICKINSON
Are you okay?

118.
Best stays bent over, body wracked by spasms. When it finally
subsides, he spits blood onto the wood planking.
Dickinson's worry immediately graduates into full-blown panic.
He throws his arm around his friend.
DICKINSON (CONT'D)
You're going to the sick bay.
INT. HIRYU - ENGINE ROOM - NIGHT
A desperate group of men wearing gas masks work in thick
smoke, lit by red emergency lights. The paint on the ceiling
is blackening from the heat of the fire above and burning
flecks occasionally fall like apocalyptic snow.
A gauge on the main turbine sinks toward zero, and one of
the men frantically shouts at the others. They rush to twist
a valve, but the gauge continues to sink until --- the noise from the engines abruptly stops. An instant
later the room falls into total darkness. The ceiling,
however, still glows a faint red from the infernal heat above.
EXT. HIRYU - HANGAR DECK - NIGHT
A cruiser and two destroyers circle the listing carrier,
spraying water onto the fires that have breached her deck.
Tamon stands near the rear elevator. He stares down into the
darkness of the hangar, head shaking.
TAMON
Without power we can't stop the fires.
KAKU
Our men will fight to the death.
TAMON
Of course. But I won't sacrifice
them if the battle is already lost.
The signal officer runs up to them and salutes Tamon.
SIGNAL OFFICER
Sir! A message from Admiral Yamamoto.
The main body is continuing forward
for a night action. He orders us to
scuttle the carrier immediately so
that it doesn't fall into enemy hands.
Tamon thinks for a long moment, turning the words over in
his head. He finally glances at Kaku.
TAMON
Gather the men.

119.
EXT. HIRYU - FLIGHT DECK - NIGHT
The remaining crew members stand at attention on the aft of
the flight deck, lit by the eerie light from the fires. Tamon
is perched on a box at the front of the group. His voice
carries clearly to his men.
TAMON
You have all fought valiantly. The
loss of this battle falls on the
heads of your commanders, not you.
For that reason I have decided to go
down with the ship.
There's a gasp from the group, followed by various cries of
protest. Tamon raises his hands for silence.
TAMON (CONT'D)
You will avenge this defeat and become
the core of an even more powerful
Japanese Navy. My final order is
that you carry on your loyal service
to the Emperor.
Tamon snaps his heels together and then turns to face west.
TAMON (CONT'D)
Banzai!
The men shout three banzais in response, the words ringing
around the deck of the doomed carrier. When the echo fades,
bugles PLAY the Japanese national anthem as the giant battle
flags are lowered from the mast.
Tamon turns to Kaku, who stands in the front row.
TAMON (CONT'D)
Abandon ship.
Kaku snaps at a lieutenant, who blows a whistle. The men
form orderly lines at the stern and begin to lower themselves
on ropes to the waiting lifeboats.
Meanwhile, a small cluster of officers gather around Tamon.
They stand in awkward silence, nobody sure what to say, until
the QUARTERMASTER clears his throat.
QUARTERMASTER
There's still money in the ship's safe.
TAMON
Leave it. I'll need it for a square
meal in hell.
Tamon smiles slightly at his own joke, but the other officers
are hollow-eyed. Kaku finally speaks.
KAKU
I want to stay with you.

120.
Tamon's expression turns serious. He shakes his head.
TAMON
I'm touched by your offer, but you
young men must leave the ship. That's
my final order.
Kaku struggles to keep from bursting into tears and then
draws himself up in a salute.
EXT. MAKIGUMO - DECK - DAY (DAWN)
Hundreds of survivors from Hiryu cling to every available
spot, eyes locked on their ship. The loudspeakers blare:
LOUDSPEAKER (V.O.)
Battle station torpedo port side.
Target Hiryu bearing ninety degrees.
The torpedo drops into the water with a hiss. Men are openly
weeping, clutching the railings for support.
Kaku stands at the fantail, tears running down his cheeks.
His eyes are locked on a lonely figure standing at attention
next to the Hiryu's island.
It's Tamon. Holding a silent vigil.
THUD! The torpedo detonates near the carrier's starboard
bow, nearly driving the ship's prow out of the water.
Kaku looks back at the island, but Tamon is gone.
INT. YAMATO - FLAG BRIDGE - DAY (DAWN)
Yamamoto sits ramrod straight in a chair, the deep bags under
his eyes the only sign of his exhaustion. Three of his
officers warily approach.
SIGNAL OFFICER
Our scouts found nothing. The American
carriers must have withdrawn overnight.
An emotional young flag officer can't contain himself.
FLAG OFFICER
We should push forward and bombard
Midway with our guns. The Americans
have no battleships. We can still
win this battle.
Yamamoto has been stone-faced throughout the exchange, but
he shakes his head at the final comment.
YAMAMOTO
We have no air cover. And we all
learned about the weaknesses of
battleships at Pearl Harbor.

121.
Yamamoto turns to the young flag officer, who shrinks under
his baleful stare.
YAMAMOTO (CONT'D)
You've been playing too much shogi.
We cannot gamble the rest of the
fleet to save our pride.
FLAG OFFICER #2
Then what are your orders, sir?
Yamamoto weighs the impossible question.
INT. STATION HYPO - DAY
The usual bustle of the room has been replaced by silence as
Rochefort stares down at an intercepted message. Everyone
watches him, waiting for his reaction.
And then a slow smile spreads across Rochefort's face.
INT. MAIN NAVY BUILDING - CINCPAC OPERATIONS ROOM - DAY
Nimitz maintains his weary vigil at the front of the room as
Layton and the exhausted staff officers update the map.
Rochefort bursts into the room, waving the message over his
head like a trophy.
ROCHEFORT
The Japanese are retreating.
Everyone stares him. The news takes a moment to process.
NIMITZ
We won.
Rochefort nods. And then the room erupts in a wild
celebration. Rochefort and Layton hug as staff officers pound
each other on the back.
Nimitz watches his men, briefly letting himself enjoy the
moment, and then walks into -INT. MAIN NAVY BUILDING - NIMITZ'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
Nimitz closes the door behind him and takes a deep breath.
And then he calls to his sleepy secretary.
NIMITZ
Get me Halsey.
INT. NAVAL HOSPITAL PEARL HARBOR - HALSEY'S ROOM - DAY
Halsey stands in his hospital gown with the phone pressed
against his ear, staring out the window at Pearl Harbor.
His eyes are once again wet, but this time his expression is
somewhere between satisfaction and relief.

122.
INT. LAYTON HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY
Miriam is reading on the couch. The front door opens and
Layton enters, carrying a brown paper bag. Miriam gives him
a confused look.
MIRIAM
What are you doing home?
LAYTON
I thought we might have lunch.
Layton opens the bag and pulls out a bottle of wine and a
loaf of bread. Miriam's brow furrows.
MIRIAM
Did something happen? What's wrong?
LAYTON
Actually, it's a good day. And I
want to celebrate with my wife.
Miriam reads Layton's expression and sees an unaccustomed
sparkle in his eyes. She stands and kisses him on the cheek.
MIRIAM
I'll get something on the table.
INT. USS ENTERPRISE - PILOT READY ROOM - NIGHT
The door creaks open and Best enters. We've always seen this
room filled with life, but now it's empty except for abandoned
playing cards and magazines and...
...Dickinson. He's leaning against the desk, staring at the
ready board. Best follows his gaze and sees the grim reality:
over half of their friends are dead or missing.
After a long moment -BEST
What happened to that whiskey?
Dickinson turns his head at the familiar voice and then slides
a flask out of his pocket.
DICKINSON
I saved it just in case you snuck
out of the infirmary.
Dickinson hands him the flask, and Best grabs a pair of coffee
mugs and pours two shots. He raises his mug in a toast.
BEST
To Cliff Janz and the rest of the
men on Arizona. To the good men we
lost today and the good men we'll
lose tomorrow. To the...

123.
The words trail off as Best is caught up in emotion. Dickinson
is briefly paralyzed -- he's never seen his friend this raw
and vulnerable -- but then he raises his own mug.
DICKINSON
To those in peril on the sea.
Best nods; the old toast is perfect for this moment. The men
shoot the whiskey, and then Dickinson stands and walks over
to the door. But he pauses before exiting.
DICKINSON (CONT'D)
Hey.
Best turns his head to look at him.
DICKINSON (CONT'D)
We did it.
Best and Dickinson trade a long look. And then Dickinson
disappears down the hallway, leaving Best alone to contemplate
the list of the missing and the dead.
As we go CLOSE on Best's face, we see his pain -- both
physical and emotional. Yet beneath the pain is something
else: exhilaration.
Dickinson is right. Yes, much hard fighting remains, but in
the darkest of hours the courage of this small fraternity of
men has turned the tide of war in the Pacific.
EXT. PEARL HARBOR - DAY
The Enterprise sails down the channel, her battle flags
proudly flying from the mast and the crew standing at
attention on the deck. Dozens of planes pass overhead in a
formation as her air group buzzes the harbor.
The shores are lined with cheering men and women -- soldiers
from Fort Kamehameha and Hickam, and patients and doctors
from Hospital Point. The crew of the other warships in the
harbor line their own decks, sirens and whistles sounding.
EXT. PEARL HARBOR - WHARF - DAY
It's a joyous scene as men pour off the Enterprise to
rendezvous with their friends and families.
Layton stands away from the commotion and watches the men
disembark, an expression of quiet satisfaction on his face.
He's content to enjoy this moment from the shadows until --- Best rolls up to him in a wheelchair. He's pale and has
lost at least ten pounds. He stares up at Layton.
BEST
Hey, remember me? We met once in the
bar at the Pink Palace.

124.
LAYTON
Yeah, I remember.
Layton's tone is wary; he doesn't want to get burned again.
But Best sticks out his hand.
BEST
Hell of a job. You intelligence guys
really came through for us.
Layton takes Best's hand and shakes, fighting to keep his
emotions in check. He never expected this kind of validation,
certainly not from a flyboy. But Nimitz was right; even though
he isn't on the front lines in a destroyer or dive bomber,
he has nevertheless done something truly meaningful.
Best, meanwhile, turns away and continues to wheel himself
down the wharf. His eyes desperately search the scene until
he finally sees...
...Ann and Barbera. They're wearing matching Sunday dresses.
When Barbera notices her father, she dashes through the crowd
and hurls herself onto his lap.
BARBERA
Daddy!
BEST
Easy, sweetie.
Best hugs his daughter and then gingerly stands to greet
Ann. Her relief emerges in a breathtaking smile. But it fades
into concern as she gets a closer look at him.
ANN
What happened to you?
BEST
I inhaled caustic soda. Apparently
it activated my latent tuberculosis.
ANN
What does that mean?
BEST
My lungs are shot. The Navy's never
going to let me fly again.
The words involuntarily burst out of Ann's mouth.
ANN
Thank God.
BEST
I'm a pilot, Ann. This is the one
thing I'm good at.
ANN
Well, get good at something else.
(MORE)

125.
ANN (CONT'D)
You've got the rest of your life to
figure it out.
Best hears the wisdom in those words, and he pulls his wife
into an embrace. They hold each other tightly, tears in their
eyes -- overwhelmingly grateful for the miracle that has
brought them back together.
We leave them in this most intimate of moments and CRANE
UPWARDS, revealing the remarkable panorama of Pearl Harbor.
Enterprise is berthed just hundreds of yards from the wreck
of the Arizona, the ship that she avenged.
As we PULL BACK further, we see the new ships and new
construction projects around the harbor: the beginnings of
what will soon become the world's mightiest war machine.
But we keep RISING and PULLING BACK until we're finally
focused on just the vast, endless ocean -- an ocean that has
tried and tested the will of everyone in our story: Japanese
and American alike.
CUT TO BLACK:
EXT. PACIFIC OCEAN - DAY
Waves lap over the camera lens, a scrap of wreckage bobbing
in the foreground. A yellow life raft heaves into the frame.
Gay lies in the bottom, badly sunburned. He stares up at the
clouds with a vacant look in his eye.
SUPER: "Ensign Gay, the lone survivor of his squadron, spent
several days adrift in the Pacific before being rescued."
EXT. PAPUA NEW GUINEA - DAY
A line of Japanese soldiers walk single-file through the
thick jungle. One of them points silently at the trees above
them, which have been cropped as if by a mysterious force.
SUPER: "A year after Midway, American codebreakers -- led by
Edwin Layton -- intercepted Yamamoto's travel itinerary."
The men continue into a clearing, where they discover a
crashed Mitsubishi G4M bomber. The wings are sheared off and
the cabin is split open by the force of the wreck.
SUPER: "Admiral Nimitz personally ordered a squadron of
fighters to shoot down Yamamoto's transport plane."
One of the soldiers points at a tree on the far side of the
clearing where...
...Yamamoto is propped upright, dead. Dried blood from a
head wound covers his formal uniform and one white-gloved
hand still grips his katana sword.
SUPER: "Yamamoto was buried with full honors."

126.
EXT. TOKYO BAY - DAY
Dozens of carriers and battleships from the mighty American
fleet fill the anchorage, guns trained on the city. Countless
fighters and bombers pass overhead in a thunderous formation.
SUPER: "On September 2, 1945 the US Pacific Fleet sailed
into Tokyo Bay."
EXT. MISSOURI - MAIN DECK - DAY
Hundreds of khaki-clad soldiers and sailors stand at attention
as a small delegation of Japanese officials make their way
toward a wood table.
SUPER: "Admiral Nimitz was chosen to sign the official
surrender documents on behalf of the United States."
As Nimitz raises his pen, we notice Layton standing underneath
one of the giant sixteen-inch gun turrets.
SUPER: "In recognition of his contributions to the war effort,
Nimitz invited Layton to attend as his personal guest."
Further down the deck stand three familiar officers in a
tight group, bright smiles on their faces.
SUPER: "Dickinson, Thatch and McClusky survived the war. All
three men eventually became admirals in the US Navy."
EXT. US NAVAL ACADEMY - RADFORD TERRACE - DAY (1996)
Autumn leaves swirl on the main quad. A crowd has gathered
on the lawn between the beautiful chapel and the imposing
facade of Bancroft Hall.
SUPER: "Dick Best spent three years after Midway in a Naval
Hospital and never flew again. He eventually became director
of security for the Rand Corporation."
As we draw closer to the crowd, we find hundreds of Midshipmen
and civilians sitting in neat rows of chairs. They're facing
a brand-new stone monument honoring the Battle of Midway.
SUPER: "US NAVAL ACADEMY. OCTOBER 3, 1996"
REAR ADMIRAL SAMUEL LOCKLEAR, 42, speaks from the podium
next to a row of dignitaries.
READ ADMIRAL LOCKLEAR
In the memorable words of President
Franklin Delano Roosevelt, 'There is
a mysterious cycle in human events.
To some generations, much is given.
Of other generations, much is expected.
Locklear turns to look at a figure standing off-camera.

127.
READ ADMIRAL LOCKLEAR (CONT'D)
Today, as we dedicate this monument
to the memory of the brave men who
fought for liberty, we are honored
to have one of the last surviving
Midway pilots with us. Lieutenant
Commander Richard Halsey Best.
As the crowd rises to applaud, we focus on a camera whirring
near the back of the group. We PUSH into the viewfinder until
a VHS image fills our screen...
...and suddenly we are watching footage of the real DICK
BEST, age 86, speaking at the ceremony. He stands proudly in
his dinner dress uniform, his back ramrod straight, the last
survivor of his squadron.
DICK BEST
I guess it's my job to speak for the
guys who can't be here. We lost a
lot of good men that day, and a lot
more since. But I'm glad to know
that we're remembered.
(beat)
People often ask me about Midway.
How I could fly against those odds,
knowing that I probably wasn't going
to come back.
Best stares out at this new generation of Naval officers,
determined to pass along the one lesson he truly learned.
DICK BEST (CONT'D)
Those men were my brothers. I would
have flown with them straight into
Hell.
We take one final look at this remarkable man, the faint
growl of a distant engine in our ear, and then...
FADE TO BLACK:
SUPER: "Dick Best died in Santa Monica, California at the
age of 91. He is buried alongside many of his friends and
fellow pilots at Arlington National Cemetery."
THE END