ISLE OF DOGS
screenplay by
WES ANDERSON

story by
WES ANDERSON, ROMAN COPPOLA,
JASON SCHWARTZMAN & KUNICHI NOMURA

Contents

Title Page
Introduction
Cast and Crew
ISLE OF DOGS
The Screenplay
Photo section
About the Author
Also by the Author
Copyright

Introduction
The following took place in London during the post-production of
Isle of Dogs. The conversation included Wes Anderson, Jason
Schwartzman, Roman Coppola, Kunichi Nomura, and Faber’s
editor, Walter Donohue
WALTER How do four people write a script?
WES We learned from our colleague Lauren that in his writers’ room

Kurosawa had one special collaborator named Oguni who was
called – what was the name of it?
ROMAN The Command Tower.

Kurosawa and his co-writer or team of co-writers worked
together to form the initial ideas and scenes of the films – but, as
they progressed, they would periodically show them to the
Command Tower, Mr Oguni. He would then tell them what was
good, what was bad – basically critique their work and steer them
back on track when they were off the rails. And that’s how they
shaped the scripts. It’s quite a common thing in Italian cinema as
well – writers working in teams. I think more or less all the Fellini
movies and the Rossellini and the DeSica and the Pietro Germi: you
even see their names on each others’ movies. I think maybe even
Pasolini worked on Nights of Cabiria. Anyway, obviously, it can be
a good system! We’ve worked together on several scripts. Kun, of
course, is the only one among us who is actually Japanese. Half the
movie is in Japanese, and it’s set there, and Kun is the only one who
actually knows what anyone is saying. He translated most of it and
helped us try to always look to Japan as the inspiration for our little
WES

reality.
WALTER Was it all four of you at the same time or just three of you

working up the story?
ROMAN Well, even going way back to our earlier collaborations on

The Darjeeling Limited and Moonrise Kingdom, so much of it
seems to start with life stories. We start with memories and people
and so on. Things that seem relevant bubble to the top, and you
grab on to them. It’s never been a one-step-after-the-next format for
us.
WES It’s more like an ongoing conversation. The conversation, in

this case, began on a boat.
WALTER A boat at sea?
WES A boat at sea. We were afforded the opportunity to go on a

wonderful ocean liner to show some of our movies and do talks
about them, which we all did together.
WALTER Where was this? The Mediterranean?
WES No, it was transatlantic.
KUN I was in New York and you wrote me and said, ‘We’re taking

the Queen Mary, want to come?’ But I couldn’t make it.
WALTER It takes a week, doesn’t it?
WES Eight days. So that’s where we started, though we had done a

bit before.
JASON In a way, it was a metaphor for the creative process: out at

sea, no land, will we get there? Who knows.

ROMAN I can remember there were lots of conversations before that,

too. I was on the phone with you from Palm Springs, and I
remember we were talking about fleas and rats. I was on the phone
with you from a balcony in Brooklyn, and we talked about Chief
nearly biting off the hand of the child of the family that had adopted
him.
WES We wrote that part over the speakerphone.
ROMAN There was also the train ride where we watched the Studio

Ghibli animated film, the one with the small princess.
KUN Arrietty.
WALTER In French cinema there’s a tradition of having two writers on

a film. One works out the structure and plot and the other does the
dialogues. Do you three divide up the writing like that?
No, we talk around it. Maybe, Jason will say something
that’ll spark off an idea, or a piece of dialogue. Wes is pretty
meticulous about taking notes. He writes it all out. And then,
sometimes, we’ll assume the roles of the characters. We did this a
lot on Darjeeling because there were three main characters, and
three of us.
ROMAN

JASON When we were writing it, I expected to play one character,

and I ended up playing another! Often Wes might have a notion or
an idea about what the movie is – something very basic, a feeling
for what it’s about. So our process is to figure this out. That’s what
is interesting to me: trying to understand what this feeling is about.
What he thinks he’s looking for.
WALTER Did the project start with dogs? Or Samurai dogs?

WES It started with dogs before it moved to Japan.
ROMAN It was always about dogs who were decrepit and abandoned

and wasted.
WES Yes, and a pack of dogs who all saw themselves as the alpha.
ROMAN And there was always a boy.
JASON And a garbage dump. With fleas and rats.
ROMAN The setting was always a blighted, urban, garbage dump.

And the dogs sent away from their masters. That was there from the
beginning.
WALTER So when did it become Japanese dogs?
WES Kun, when did we first talk about this?
KUN From time to time I suddenly get a very short email from you,

and it’s the start of something big. When the email is short, I know
it’s a bad sign. You said you were thinking of an animated movie
taking place in Japan, and you needed my help. Just a two-line
email. Three years later, it’s not over yet.
WES It’s not over yet, but it will end. One day.

kun You wanted me to help work on the script and the story. Also,
someone else was working on the translation, but we knew I had to
make it sound like you.
WES Yes, the translations needed to have the voice of the movie.
KUN You have your own voice, so the translating was really hard.

Then you asked me to record some of the characters to see what

they sounded like. Kobayashi, the Professor, some of the women.
WES We had characters speaking Japanese, so we needed to start

recording voices so we could do the animatics of our storyboard
version of the movie. One of the voices Kun did was Mayor
Kobayashi, and we ended up keeping Kun’s voice, because he has
such a low, powerful voice. Nobody sounded as formidable as Kun.
Although Kun is much younger than the character.
JASON His voice records even lower and more powerful than his

normal voice.
KUN I have my own radio show, which I do every week. Wes asked

if I could record the voices properly. So when I was recording the
show, I asked the technicians if they could stay half an hour more
so I could record the characters’ voices. They were really curious
because I was in the studio alone, yelling, ‘Banish all dogs!’ And
they asked me, ‘What’s it all about?’
WES And then I asked you to help me direct all these performances!
WALTER Do you remember when you made the decision that it should

take place in Japan? What was there in the story that would make it
work better if it was located in Japan?
ROMAN Something about the sci-fi genres of Japan. It’s funny, when

we started it wasn’t necessarily a feature film. It was just a story, a
part of a bigger piece.
WES Originally, it was a short story that was part of a little collection

of movie short stories. But maybe the Japanese setting was more to
do with being inspired by Japanese movies – a whole world of
cinema that is so interesting and vast and complex. Kurosawa, in
particular, is the biggest influence on this movie. It’s really as

simple as: we love these movies, and wouldn’t it be nice to make
our version of being in the Kurosawa world. When you’re doing a
stop-motion movie, you can say a character should be played by
someone like Toshiro Mifune, and you can make your own Toshiro
Mifune. More or less.
WALTER Whenever there’s a novel or film set in the future, you take

something that people are especially used to now and say: what if
we no longer have it? Or what if we have something else instead?
WES Well, I guess our film could really be set today. It’s not really

very far in the future. The futuristic aspect of it is pretty limited. In
fact, the original situation we began with was that the story began in
the year 2007, except the movie has supposedly been made in 1962.
So it was only the future from that perspective.
WALTER Like Blade Runner was made in 1982 but set in 2019?
WES More like if the new Blade Runner pretended to

have been
made in 1983. Frankly, it became a bit of a struggle to communicate
this idea, pretending to be an old movie set in 2007. I’m confused
even trying to explain what we failed to do. Anyway, I guess we
thought of the setting as being the Japan of The Bad Sleep Well
(1961) or High and Low (1965). We were trying to make it look
like that period of Kurosawa’s work. Also, the movie reflects the
genre of Japanese disaster movies – the Godzilla world of movies.
It has quite a few links to that kind of thing too, which is not
exactly science fiction; it’s more like disaster fantasy, monster
fantasy. Isle of Dogs is about a political monster.
WALTER Because it’s animation, did a lot of the decisions have to be

made early, or was your particular way of working together an
ongoing thing all the way through?

WES We had a script. My impression is that sometimes when they do

an anim ated movie they don’t exactly start with a script. They just
start storyboarding. They have a story, and then go directly to a
storyboard. But we had a finished script first, and then we did the
storyboard version.
ROMAN But there’s another layer to the writing where we may feel

the need for another scene or to clarify something. There was a
complete script, which you would have for any normal feature, but
it shifts and grows and shrinks more this way.
So when you started storyboarding it, it might suddenly
become clear that you needed another scene or a flashback.
WALTER

WES Right. As you make the movie, you mock up the movie, edit it

so you can see how it works. And, in this case – with many of the
voices not being actors – with drawings, which is sort of a
simulation of the movie, which is sometimes a complicated thing to
make, which is why it takes a long time to do. You end up rewriting
and revising. You have much more freedom when it’s drawn, you
can change it readily. There’s a lot you have to figure out in
advance because it takes a long time to make the puppets, to make
their faces, etc. You’ve got to know some weeks before shooting
the scene that this puppet has to be angry, or have a frown, or have
a certain gesture, depending on what range of faces you have for
that puppet, because some of the puppets have replacement faces.
You can’t just say, ‘I want him to be wide-eyed,’ as that face
doesn’t exist to put on him; it has to be sculpted and painted and
prepared. You have to make a mould. Many of the faces are made
of resin, they’ve got to be painted – it’s a whole process. And then
you look at it, and it might not have turned out very well. In that
sense, you have to think in a long-term way, on a different timeline.

Does that process help shape the dogs’ very specific
personalities?
WALTER

WES Actually, it’s only the human characters who have the cast-

moulded faces. The faces of the dogs: the animators can do what
they want with them. They have the equivalent of muscles in their
faces. The faces of the humans are cast. It’s a different method.
They’re more like dolls, really. Hundreds of chang ing doll faces.
WALTER How did you work out which personality each dog had?
WES Basically, you have to dream up a cast of characters. So we

started by figuring out where they came from. We knew we wanted
a gang, before we knew who they were individually. First of all, we
probably had a sense of Chief and Spots. The two brothers.
ROMAN Though we discovered that they were brothers later, along

the way.
JASON I recall that Duke’s ability to overhear and know about gossip

became part of his character.
ROMAN That’s because I would say to Jason, ‘Did you hear about the

guy and what he said about this thing?’ and Wes would say, ‘What’s
that? …’
WALTER It’s a good device for revealing information.
JASON Dogs have really good hearing; they’re the best animals for

eavesdropping.
When you’ve got the characters, do you say, ‘Well, Bill
Murray could play this part’?
WALTER

WES

We didn’t really write this one for actors. We just wrote

characters.
ROMAN At one point, we talked about having a cast of all very, very

alpha men: Bruce Willis, Sylvester Stallone, Arnold
Schwarzenegger. All action stars. But then we decided to go in
another direction.
JASON We’d have conversations and one of us would say to the other,

‘I thought you were going to say …’ Someone will say something,
and then we’ll do an inversion because you’ll misunderstand or
you’ll take another train of thought from what has just been said.
WES An idea can sort of come from any direction: ‘I thought you

were going to say the opposite of what you just said, but this is
better!’
Jason will sometimes say, ‘Here’s the worst, corniest
Hollywood version …’ and we immediately perk up and say, ‘Give
it to us,’ because it usually means it’s a nuts-and-bolts version of
what we want to say. We’d say, ‘Well, that’s a good start. That
would actually work.’
ROMAN

WALTER Does the fact that there’s three of you mean that you don’t

get deadlocked because if two of you get deadlocked, the third one
can unlock it?
WES/ROMAN/JASON Command Tower!
WALTER Given the series of conversations on trains, phones, etc., was

there a point where you had to be in one room?
ROMAN The crucial work is almost always the work we do in a room

together.

WES As cousins, Roman and Jason have known each other since the

occasion of Jason’s birth. Roman occasionally prefers to take up a
position on the floor, and Jason often seems to find his stocking feet
resting on top of Roman like an ottoman. They’re very comfortable
together in a confined space.
WALTER The fact that all three of you have worked together for so

long suggests that you share something which probably couldn’t be
articulated.
WES We’ve been trying to articulate it to you for the past hour. So, if

we haven’t succeeded, then it’s probably time for this interview to
come to an end.

Principal Cast
Bryan Cranston
Koyu Rankin
MAYOR KOBAYASHI
Kunichi Nomura
REX
Edward Norton
BOSS
Bill Murray
DUKE
Jeff Goldblum
KING
Bob Balaban
SPOTS
Liev Schreiber
TRACY WALKER
Greta Gerwig
INTERPRETER NELSON
Frances McDormand
MAJOR-DOMO
Akira Takayama
PROFESSOR WATANABE
Akira Ito
PROFESSOR
watanabe Akira Ito
JUPITER
F. Murray Abraham
THE NARRATOR
Courtney B. Vance
ASSISTANT-SCIENTIST YOKO-ONO
Yoko Ono
GONDO
Harvey Keitel
SCRAP
Fisher Stevens
ORACLE
Tilda Swinton
SIMUL-TRANSLATE MACHINE
Frank Wood
EDITOR-HIROSHI
Nijiro Murakami
HEAD SURGEON
Ken Watanabe
AUNTIE
Mari Natsuki
NEWS-ANCHOR
Yojiro Noda
CHIEF
ATARI

Principal Crew
Directed by
Wes Anderson
Story by
Wes Anderson, Roman Coppola, Jason Schwartzman
and Kunichi Nomura
Screenplay by
Wes Anderson
Produced by
Wes Anderson, Scott Rudin, Steven Rales and
Jeremy Dawson
Lead Animators
Kim Keukeleire, Jason Stalman and Antony

Elworthy
Animation Director
Mark Waring
Director of Photography
Tristan Oliver
Production Designers
Adam Stockhausen and Paul Harrod
Supervising Editor
Andrew Weisblum
Music Composed by
Alexandre Desplat
Head of Puppets Department
Andy Gent
Senior Visual Effects Supervisor
Tim Ledbury
Animation Supervisor
Tobias Fouracre
Animation Producer
Simon Quinn
Co-Producer
Octavia Peissel
2D Animation and Design by
Gwenn Germain
Editors
Ralph Foster and Edward Bursch
Taiko Composer/Advisor
Kaoru Watanabe
Music Supervisor
Randall Poster
US Casting by
Douglas Aibel
Executive Producers
Christoph Fisser, Henning Molfenter
and Charlie Woebcken

ISLE OF DOGS

(NOTE: the opening titles of this film play over a shot of
three shirtless taiko barrel-drummers in a large, black
studio pounding a relentless, ferocious beat.)

EXT. ROOFTOP. NIGHT
A densely populated coastal city. In the foreground: the old
district of wooden shrines, red-light streets, and jingling
bicycles. In the background: the new business-complex of highrise super-structures, signal-towers, and rapid-transit skyways.
A massive, stone edifice topped by a wide hemisphere of glowing,
vaulted glass dominates the middle-distance. Our narrator
announces ominously:
NARRATOR (V.O.)
The Japanese archipelago, twenty years in the future.
INT. MUNICIPAL DOME. NIGHT
A crowded hearing-room in the building’s central rotunda.
Hundreds of spectators murmur in the high galleries which circle
the chamber floor. The officers of various legislative committees
and members of the press mill about at their desks, whispering
and shuffling, anxious. There is a burst of applause as a stout
and powerful silver-haired politician in his early sixties
ascends to the podium and stands before the assembled audience.
He is Mayor Kobayashi.
The mayor puts on his glasses, adjusts a microphone, activates a
teleprompter, and begins his speech: a ferocious, furious
diatribe. The hushed audience watches and listens.
(NOTE: the humans in this story are, by and large, Japanese
citizens, and speak primarily in their native tongue. The dogs
bark in English.)
NARRATOR (V.O.)
Canine Saturation has reached epidemic proportions. An
outbreak of Snout-Fever rips through the City of
Megasaki. Blizzards of infected fleas, worms, ticks,
and lice menace the citizenship. Dog-Flu threatens to
cross the species threshold and enter the human
disease-pool.
Above the mayor’s head, a projected montage flickers onto a huge

viewing-screen showing: a propaganda portrait of the mayor;
footage of a horde of drooling street-dogs flooding a narrow
street; angry dog-patients with blood-shot eyes and runny noses;
bugs and parasites crawling on microscope slides; and a subwaycar crowded with frightened people wearing surgical-masks, all
staring at a lone terrier growling ominously.
(ADDITIONAL NOTE: photographs and still-images in this story are
generally presented in the form of traditional, full-color
Nishiki-e wood-block-prints.)
NARRATOR (V.O.)
In a special midnight-session at the Municipal Dome,
Mayor Kobayashi of Uni Prefecture issues emergency
orders calling for a hasty quarantine: the expulsion
and containment of all species, both stray and
domesticated. By official decree, Trash Island becomes
an exile colony.
The mayor builds to an impassioned, rabble-rousing crescendo. His
hands slice through the air as he bellows with finality (in
English):
MAYOR KOBAYASHI
Banish all dogs! Save Megasaki City of Uni Prefecture!
The crowd erupts, cheering and roaring as the mayor unfolds a
document at his podium. The projected image of the document
appears on the viewing-screen with a heading in bold at the top
of the page: The Trash Island Decree. Confetti falls from the
rafters. The narrator concludes:
NARRATOR (V.O.)
The Isle of Dogs.
The mayor pauses gravely. He raises his hand for silence and
explains (subtitled in English):
MAYOR KOBAYASHI
Our legal-system provides for Dissenting Opinion.
Science-Party Candidate Professor Watanabe.
As the mayor steps down from the lectern, he crosses paths
wordlessly with his younger, taller, skinnier, handsomer
colleague. Professor Watanabe wears a short white lab-kimono and
dark sunglasses. He withdraws a thin stack of index cards out of
his pocket. The room waits, doubtful. He begins calmly with one
quiet sentence.

Up above the nosebleed section, a woman in a glass booth with an
electronic head-set on her ears translates into a bouquet of
microphones labeled with international flags and media-symbols.
She speaks with a strong, Midwestern-American accent:
INTERPRETER
It’s not fair to the dogs.
The professor furthers his argument in Japanese as the
interpreter furthers her translation:
INTERPRETER
The path favored by Mayor Kobayashi is cruel, coldblooded, and unscientific.
On the screen, commemorative wood-block-prints of: a heroic
rescue-dog posing with a child in front of a burning building; a
seeing-eye-dog posing with a blind man in a city park; a team of
sled-dogs posing in a blizzard; a police-dog posing in uniform
with a garland of flowers around him and R.I.P. printed below; a
symbolic tsunami crashing over the city.
INTERPRETER (V.O.)
For a thousand years, these resilient animals have
loved, served, and protected us. Now, in their time of
greatest need, we forsake them? A tidal-wave of AntiDog hysteria has crippled our moral judgement.
The frowning audience listens: bitter, old men in business suits;
protesters in Anti-Dog head-bands; reporters and photographers,
students and teachers, workers and bosses. One solitary figure
listens to the professor with interest, hope, and respect: a
fourteen-year-old American girl with a wild mass of curly, golden
hair and the sole Pro-Dog head-band in evidence. (We will later
come to know her as Foreign-exchange-student Tracy Walker.)
INTERPRETER (V.O.)
Give me six months, and I will deliver a serum. I’m
this close, dammit. Dog-Flu will be eradicated. SnoutFever will be defeated. Canine Saturation will be
returned to sustainable levels -- and without massneutering!
The professor stares at the audience. There is a catch in his
voice as he concludes, almost inaudibly. The interpreter pauses,
moved. She swallows.
INTERPRETER

Whatever happened -- to man’s best friend?
The mayor watches coolly. A woman in her own white lab-kimono
wrings her hands as she listens. (She is Professor Watanabe’s
Assistant-Scientist, Yoko-ono.) The professor tucks his index
cards back into his pocket and folds his arms across his chest.
Silence.
The crowd explodes, jeering and chanting. People jump to their
feet and shake their fists. Professor Watanabe stands, stoic, as
the protesters hurl open trash cans in his direction, littering
the stage with filth and debris. Chairs fly. Ballots and
propaganda flyers flutter. Yoko-ono rushes to shield the
professor from the barrage. The interpreter continues her
commentary:
INTERPRETER (V.O.)
No, no, no! The crowd is calling for the immediate
ratification and approval of the mayor’s proposal.
Mayor Kobayashi gently guides Professor Watanabe and Yoko-ono
aside. He signals again for order, but the mob continues its
frenzied demonstration. He motions to the wings; and a tall,
crooked man with white hair and a ghostly, powdered face emerges
from backstage carrying a large plastic dog-cage. He is MajorDomo.
INTERPRETER (V.O.)
As a gesture of public solidarity, Mayor Kobayashi is
calling upon his Assistant Hatchet-Man, Major-Domo, to
furnish the personal bodyguard-dog of the mayoralhousehold, Spots Kobayashi, into the possession of the
Committee for Canine Desaturation. Spots will be the
first dog to be officially deported from the city.
Inside the cage, there is a snowy-white hound, lean and muscled,
clean and groomed. He has floppy ears with black spots all over
them. There is a secret-service-type earphone in his left ear. (A
diode-light on the wire blinks green.) He wears a hand-dyed silk
dog-collar with an I.D. tag that reads, simply: Spots.
(Another image appears on the viewing-screen: a publicity woodblock-print of the mayor posing with a Siamese cat in his arms
and a small boy in military-school uniform standing beside him.)
Major-Domo ceremoniously places the dog-cage on a decorative
display-stand. More cameras flash. Spots smiles and poses

uncertainly behind the wire bars of his cage’s plastic door. He
looks off, house-right, to a small, thin, silent figure watching
from the back-stage shadows. He is barely visible in the
darkness, partly hidden behind the open theatre-curtain (and
dwarfed by the surrounding adults). His dead arms hang flat at
his sides.
With a sudden flourish, the mayor produces a heavy, steel stamphammer and decisively thumps the seal of his office onto the
document at the podium in red ink -- formally activating the
Trash Island Decree.
INT. ELEVATOR. DAY
A high-speed service-elevator filled with barrels, buckets,
sacks, and cans of assorted protest-garbage. A janitor stares at
the climbing numbers on an electronic gauge. (The dog-cage sits
on top of a bin. Spots looks uneasy.)
EXT. ROOFTOP. DAY
A loading platform with a view across the grey city-scape and the
rising sun. The janitor pulls-down a steel handle, and a
telescoping crank-shaft lifts a rubbish-filled iron trash-tram up
into the air. (The dog-cage sticks out over the rim of the cart.
Spots looks worried.)
EXT. AERIAL CABLE. DAY
The trash-tram rises-up to a suspended wire and jolts to a stop.
A clutch engages, a gear crunches, and the trash-tram launches
away sideways along a high cable. (Spots is now a passenger. He
looks panic-stricken.)
EXT. MEGASAKI CITY. DAY
An immense metropolis circled by a wide river. Numerous trashtrams whiz along their cables over rooftops and in-between skyscrapers.
GRAPHIC:
A wood-block-print sea-chart of a waterway labeled: Sapporo
River. Dotted lines map a course from Megasaki City across to
Trash Island.
EXT. TRASH ISLAND. DAY
A vast land-form piled with endless refuse. There are mountains

and valleys of demolished vehicles and pulverized appliances;
bridges and towers of obliterated furniture; spill-off rivers,
storm-sewer lakes; mounds of noxious, left-over food-stuffs.
Barges cruise the shores searching for empty spaces to deposit
new waste. Trash-tram cables zoom-across the white waters toward
the island from every direction.
CUT TO:
Spots’ trash-tram screeching to a stop above the coast of the
junk-yard island. A rotary mechanism grinds and groans as the
bottom of the cart opens like a set of bomb-bay doors, and a
sizeable quantity of rubbish plunges out with an angry whoosh.
CUT TO:
Ground-level. Spots in his battered cage crashes down to the
earth and lands with a brutal jolt, more or less upright, as the
last of the falling garbage litters around him. The trash-tram
above creaks away and moves on.
Spots stands-up awkwardly inside his cage. He winces and cradles
his fore-paw gingerly. He looks up, down, side-to-side. (The
diode-light on his earphone now blinks red.) He says finally into
his earphone-mic:
SPOTS
Master Atari, do you read me?
A filthy, flea-infested, black rat skittles out of the trash
heaps and approaches, wary. Spots studies the lock on his cage. A
crack of thunder shakes the land-fill and rumbles in the
distance. The rat scratches at the freshly fallen debris. Spots
waits in silence, overwhelmed and frightened. He shivers. The
camera slowly zooms out as a soft rain begins to fall and a mist
rolls in. The trapped dog and the skittering rat and the
expansive trash landscape all disappear into a thick white cloud
that fills the screen entirely.
TITLE:
6 Months Later
The mist clears to reveal the same view, now cluttered with
several hundred empty, fallen dog-cages.
INSERT:
A scruffy, black owl with one eye and featherless patches. It

rattles its beak against an icy, metal sign-post. The sign reads:
No Landing. Beware of Dogs.
EXT. SHORE-LINE. DAY
Shredded newspapers quiver in the snowy breeze along the freezing
water-front. Flurries twist and somersault among hunks of dirty
cardboard, cracked plastic, and crushed metal. The camera dollies
inland along a winding junk-path through a frosty architecture of
garbage -- liberally dotted with wandering dogs.
NARRATOR (V.O.)
Nomadic packs of once-domesticated house-pets, sick and
hungry, rove the garbage canyons and filthy ravines,
scrounging for scraps.
The camera passes through a dirt-tunnel and emerges to reveal an
expansive, horrifically barren valley littered with jagged debris
and roaming, scavenging gangs: five tired sheep-dogs; six hungry
pit-bulls; seven skittish bird-dogs; eight shivering beagles; two
dozen disoriented, staggering little poodles.
NARRATOR (V.O.)
One hundred percent test positive for the Dog-Flu germ.
Symptoms: weight-loss, dizziness, narcolepsy, insomnia,
and extreme/aggressive behavior. Three-quarters display
signs of early-onset Snout-Fever: high temperature, low
blood-pressure, acute moodiness, and spasmodic nasal
expiration.
A sad, filthy mutt in the foreground looks back into the lens and
sneezes.
(NOTE: all the dogs on Trash Island sneeze frequently throughout
the story.)
Below an over-turned wheel-barrow, a mother suckles a litter of
pups. The runt drinks from a puddle of beige rain-water. A trashtram approaches over a jagged plateau above the face of a
rubbish-cliff and comes to a stop.
NARRATOR (V.O.)
New litters add to the dog-food shortage at an average
rate of 3.5 new births per week. The exiled dogpopulation grows weaker, sadder, angrier.
A large sack of garbage drops slamming onto the ground. It splits
slightly, spilling kitchen scraps and smashed-up egg cartons. The

trash-tram rattles away.
NARRATOR (V.O.)
Desperate.
Slowly, the pack of sheep-dogs emerges slinking out of the
surrounding refuse and creeps-in toward the fresh trash. Their
tongues hang out of the sides of their mouths. Suddenly, one of
them freezes, sniffs the air, and listens. The sheep-dogs all
stop together in their tracks and stare beyond the garbage sack
at:
A second group of five big, starving, greasy, dirty mutts spacedout across the width of the plateau, calmly watching them. This
is our Hero Pack. It consists of:
1. A wiry, wire-haired mutt with spiky, mottled coat and the eyes
of an Arctic sled-dog. His ribs stick out like a cast-iron
radiator. He is Rex.
2. A graceful, red-haired mutt with a sable snout and a handlebar
moustache. He is dappled with scabs, scars, scuffs, and
scratches. He is King.
3. A stout, liver-spotted mutt with black paws and a tail like a
stubbed-out cigar. He wears a soiled, grimy, unraveling, striped,
woolen dog-sweater with embroidered baseballs and the word
Dragons scrolled across it in cursive. He is Boss.
4. A bohemian mountain-dog. Slender face, sleek ears, and a
ballet-dancer’s overly nimble gait. He has seven missing teeth
and a consumptive dry-cough. He is Duke.
5. A coal-black hound with long legs, black nose, a boxer’s jaw,
and floppy, black ears with white spots all over them. He has the
sturdy frame of a middle-weight, but the starved mass of a longdistance runner. He is Chief.
Rex, King, Boss, and Duke (like nearly all dogs on the island)
wear collars with I.D. tags. Chief’s neck is bare.
The misty wind whistles.
The Hero Pack approaches, stealthy. The ten dogs face-off in two
fierce, opposing semi-circles. They shift on their paws and lower
their snouts, glaring and growling. Just as they are about to all
pounce en masse onto the garbage sack and explode into an
inevitable brawl, Rex pauses and stands up straight.

REX
Wait a second.
The other nine dogs pause, as well. The sheep-dogs eyeball Rex,
wary and suspicious.
REX
Before we attack each other and tear ourselves to
shreds like a pack of maniacs -- let’s just open the
sack first and see what’s actually in it. It might not
even be worth the trouble.
The sheep-dogs debate the question at some length, murmuring with
each other, bickering at a whisper. Chief, King, Duke, and Boss
look somewhat doubtful, too.
Silence.
The biggest of the sheep-dogs nods to Rex curtly. Rex cautiously
approaches the sack and slits it with a careful claw. He opens it
like a surgeon. The gathered dogs move closer and study the
contents.
INSERT:
A complex mixture of decaying food-items and live vermin which
Rex lists rapidly to himself under his breath:
REX
A rancid apple core; two worm-eaten banana peels; a
moldy rice cake; a dried-up pickle; a tin of sardine
bones; a pile of broken egg-shells; an old, smushed-up,
rotten gizzard with maggots all over it -CHIEF
(interrupting)
OK, it’s worth it.
All at once, the dogs attack each other ferociously, howling and
yelling, fangs bared, launching into brutal, spectacular, riproaring combat. They whirl and spin, snapping and tumbling,
tearing at each others’ flanks and throats, a cyclone of flying
fur and paws and teeth and claws. Finally, Chief plunges his
canines deep into the scalp of the biggest sheep-dog, who yelps
bloody murder.
The fight stops short.
All the panting sheep-dogs catch their breath. They look battered

and dazed. They turn to the biggest one. His fur is matted with
blood. His tail is twisted like a cork-screw. His eyes are
bruised, and his paws are purple. He has tears in his eyes.
Chief’s jaw hardens.
CHIEF
Get out of here, and don’t come back.
The biggest sheep-dog turns away, limping and hopping. The others
follow. The smallest among them pauses and looks back.
SHEEP-DOG #2
Sheesh, Igor. I think he chewed your ear off.
The biggest sheep-dog sees his ragged, detached ear in the dirt.
He is surprised and a little embarrassed. He shrugs, then drifts
away with the rest of his company.
Chief flicks away the severed-ear. He and the others look after
the sheep-dogs and at each other (significantly the worse for
wear) with savage, victorious expressions on their faces.
Finally, they begin to pick through the putrid trash, nibbling
uncertainly, spitting out seeds and bugs, avoiding the most toxic
bits. On-looking dogs watching from nearby nooks and perches
return to their business.
(NOTE: every corner of Trash Island now brims and bristles with
dogs at all times; digging, scrounging, sleeping; on ridges and
in crannies; far-away, close-by. They appear in the background of
nearly every shot.)
Rex stops. He takes a step back. He says evenly:
REX
I don’t think I can stomach any more of this garbage.
King, Duke, and Boss mumble and mutter simultaneously in
agreement. (”Me, neither.” “Same here.” “It’s horrible.” Etc.)
Rex sniffles. He says, pained:
REX
I used to sleep on a lambs-wool bean-bag next to an
electric space-heater. That’s my territory. I’m an
indoor dog.
KING
I starred in twenty-two consecutive Doggy-Chop
commercials. Look at me now. I couldn’t land an
audition.

BOSS
I was the lead mascot for an undefeated high-school
baseball team. I lost all my spirit. I’m depressing.
DUKE
I only ask for what I’ve always had: a balanced diet,
regular grooming, and a general physical once a year.
REX
(quietly)
I think I might give up.
King, Boss, and Duke hesitate. They are not entirely sure how to
interpret this last remark.
DUKE
Right now?
REX
Right now. There’s no future on Trash Island.
Pause. Duke nods. He says soberly:
DUKE
You heard the rumor, right? About Buster.
Rex, King, and Boss mumble and mutter simultaneously again.
(”Maybe not.” “Remind us again.” “What happened to him?” Etc.)
Duke says bluntly:
DUKE
Suicided. Hanged himself by his own leash.
The group falls into a solemn, contemplative silence as they
ponder their mortality. Rex says desolately:
REX
I want my master.
Chief snorts. He scoffs. He snorts again, scoffs again, narrows
his eyes, and growls:
CHIEF
You make me sick. Excuse me.
Chief turns aside and vomits briefly. He grits his teeth.
CHIEF
I’ve seen cats with more balls than you dogs. Stop

licking your wounds!
Duke is, in fact, licking a wound on his left flank. He freezes
with his tongue out, caught in the act.
CHIEF
You hungry? Kill something and eat it. You sick? Take a
long nap. You cold? Dig a hole in the ground, crawl
into it, and bury yourself -- but nobody’s giving up
around here, and don’t you forget it, ever.
Chief prowls among the others like a deeply disappointed drillsergeant. He motions to their I.D. tags, one-by-one.
CHIEF
You’re Rex! You’re King! You’re Duke! You’re Boss! I’m
Chief. We’re a pack of scary, indestructible Alpha
Dogs. We just chewed somebody’s ear off. You’re talking
like a bunch of housebroken -(searching for the mot juste)
-- pets.
King, Boss, and Duke (with their tails between their legs,
mentally and literally) turn to Rex. Rex stares at Chief.
REX
You don’t understand. How could you? You’re a -Rex hesitates. Chief nods, hurt but deeply guarded:
CHIEF
I’m a stray.
Rex sighs. He looks guilty. King, Boss, and Duke start poking
awkwardly at the trash again. Something topples down a nearby
ridge with a metallic pling-plong-plang.
The five dogs turn sharply and look.
CUT TO:
An almost feline, lank-limbed spaniel. She has a blonde coat with
a high sheen. She licks a bit of grit off her fur and twists her
body, stretching, then flicks her brown eyes for an instant to
the watching dogs.
INSERT:
The female dog’s I.D. tag which reads: Nutmeg.

Nutmeg slopes away down the hill, out of sight. All five male
dogs stare after her. Chief raises an eyebrow. Rex whistles
softly. Duke licks his chops. Boss attempts a glamorous pose.
King says, curious:
KING
How’s she keep her fur so clean? There’s no shampoo on
Trash Island.
No one responds to this, ostensibly, rhetorical question. Duke
says confidentially:
DUKE
You heard the rumor, right? About her and Felix.
Chief, Rex, King, and Boss mumble and mutter simultaneously
again. (”Maybe not.” “Who’s Felix?” “What happened to him?” Etc.)
Duke says bluntly:
DUKE
They mated.
Chief, Rex, King, and Boss are deeply impressed and slightly
taken-aback. Chief raises his other eyebrow. Boss says
philosophically:
BOSS
All the ones I like: they’re never in heat.
Pause. Rex looks up suddenly to the clouds. He says vaguely:
REX
That puddle-jumper’s flying crooked.
Chief, King, Boss, and Duke all turn to the sky, as well. A
distant engine sputters. King, Duke, and Boss mumble and mutter
simultaneously again. (”You’re too low.” “Throttle-back.” “Pullup.” Etc.) Chief cocks his head to one side and says curiously:
CHIEF
He’s going to lose a wing.
CUT TO:
A tiny, single-engine, miniature airplane the approximate length
of a ten-speed bicycle. (A decal below the nose-cone reads: SelfKit Junior Turbo-Prop XJ750.) It bounces violently in the
turbulent air. A tram-line clips off a wing. The airplane
improbably, some might say even miraculously, continues to fly

for another few seconds, jerking and bobbing. Finally, it pitches
hard to one side, attempts a desperate recovery climb, then curls
over and drops like a cannonball straight down behind a far-away
refuse-berm.
The explosion reverberates, and a plume of white smoke billows up
into the sky.
REVERSE:
The five dogs watch, impressed. Boss looks to the others and
marvels with a wildly dazzled look on his face:
BOSS
Wow.
Chief, Rex, King, Boss, and Duke all scramble away toward the
crash-site.
EXT. BEACH. DAY
A clearing along the dreck-ridden shore-line. There is a long,
deep rut through layers of garbage which leads to the smoldering
airplane. The fuselage is intact, but both wings are missing.
Smoke pours from the tail-fin.
The twelve-year-old pilot in an extra-small flight-suit with
stainless-steel elevated-sandals staggers from the wreckage,
hobbling on the beached-debris. He is Atari. (A patch on his
pocket states this explicitly.)
A parachute swirls on its extended lines from Atari’s backpack up
into the air. A detached section of the plane’s broken propellerclutch sticks out of the side of his helmet into which it appears
to have been violently imbedded like a hunk of shrapnel.
Atari limps as he struggles to unhook his chin-strap, then
collapses.
TITLE:
Part One:
“The Little Pilot”
The wind whips and whistles the white parachute. The white smoke
spirals. The white river laps at the filthy beach.
CUT TO:

The five dogs watching from a nearby trash-ridge.
CHIEF
Small guy. Not much meat on him.
DUKE
Is he dead?
KING
He looks dead.
BOSS
I have a question. Are we eating him, or is this a
rescue?
CHIEF
We don’t know yet.
REX
(angrily)
Nobody’s eating the little pilot. Not even the dead
body of him. Dogs don’t eat masters.
CHIEF
(harshly)
You’re not our leader. We all are. Let’s take a vote.
REX
(instantly)
All in favor of not eating the little pilot, say “Aye”.
The five dogs vote: four “Ayes” and a simultaneous “Nay”. Chief
grumbles to himself bitterly. Rex descends down the trash-ridge
to the crash-site. The other dogs follow him. They circle Atari’s
comatose body. King nips at the parachute lines, setting the silk
free like a kite. The fabric wisps away up into the sky, strings
dangling. Inside his helmet, Atari’s eyes are closed.
REX
First-things-first: let’s open his helmet so he can
breathe some air (if he’s alive), then see if we can
pull that hunk of broken propeller-clutch out of the
side of his head (if it doesn’t kill him). Does that
sound right?
There is a murmur of approval. Rex peers over Atari’s helmet and
studies it. He wiggles his fore-claw under a latch. There is a
click, and Atari’s face-mask jolts open.

Atari’s eyes are staring up at Rex’s face. Rex looks startled.
Atari whacks Rex’s nose with his fingers and bolts upright. The
five dogs all leap back.
Pause.
Atari launches into a heated explanation in Japanese with the
broken propeller-clutch still sticking out of the side of his
head. He goes on at some length. He climbs to his feet, unsnaps
his breast pocket, and withdraws a little card which he holds up
for each dog to see, one-by-one.
INSERT:
A publicity wood-block-print of Spots in his dog-cage.
Atari jabs his finger at the picture and repeats emphatically:
ATARI
Spots-u! Spots-u! Spots-u!
The five dogs study the picture. Rex nods. He says urgently:
REX
We get the idea. You’re looking for your lost dog,
Spots.
(to the other dogs)
Anybody know him?
King, Boss, and Duke shrug and shake their heads. They look
behind them at various other on-looking-dogs in the background.
None of them are familiar with Spots, either. (Chief, standing
apart from the rest of the group, makes no comment whatsoever.)
Atari looks frustrated. Suddenly, he grabs the broken propellerclutch and pulls on it angrily, struggling as the alarmed dogs
watch. It jerks out of his head/helmet with a crunch. The five
dogs gasp.
Atari keels-over again, out-cold.
INT. ARENA. NIGHT
Two gargantuan sumo wrestlers stand hunched, facing-off on a
sandy clay platform. Neither moves a muscle. An eye darts. A
finger twitches. Knees shudder slightly. A referee in a metallic
gold kimono eyeballs the two fighters tensely.
Suddenly, one wrestler lunges for the other’s lower-leg and

flips, hurls, kicks, and slaps him out of the ring. The audience
roars and cheers. The dominant wrestler immediately turns away,
preening, gloating, and throwing salt absently across the floor.
In the audience: Major-Domo squeezes down an aisle, stepping over
legs. Mayor Kobayashi is seated in the first row between two
bodyguards. Major-Domo whispers something into his ear. The mayor
frowns and shouts over the din:
MAYOR KOBAYASHI
Atari-kun?
Major-Domo nods. The mayor curses, then stands up and charges out
of the arena with Major-Domo and the bodyguards at his heels.
INT. SOUND-STAGE. NIGHT
On a television monitor, a well-groomed news-anchor behind a desk
reads from a teleprompter in Japanese. The usual interpreter
translates:
INTERPRETER (V.O.)
In response to questions regarding the purported
disappearance of his ward Atari, Mayor Kobayashi offers
no comment and urges reporters to respect the privacy
of the mayoral-household. Atari, aged twelve, was last
seen early yesterday morning rolling a small airplane
onto a runway at Megasaki Executive airport.
EXT. HILL-TOP. DAY
A dog-hovel at the top of a high trash-mound. There is an
entrance tunnel below a plastic-bag canopy (which rustles in the
breeze). Hundreds of other make-shift animal-residences surround
the area in rows and tiers. Industrial machines grind and crank
in the distance. A tug-boat’s air-horn echoes.
TITLE:
24 Hours Later
Atari emerges crawling from the tunnel. He has removed his
helmet, but a small section of the broken propeller-clutch
remains lodged in the side of his skull. There is a secretservice-type earphone in his left ear. (A diode-light on the wire
blinks red.) He gets to his feet and pauses.
Rex, King, Boss, and Duke wait, standing at attention. Chief
sits, slouched and surly, beside them. Atari approaches. He pats

Chief on the head. Chief jerks away and issues a sharp warning:
CHIEF
I bite.
Rex, King, Boss, and Duke frown at Chief. Rex says, mortified:
REX
I beg your pardon. Ignore that dog. He’s got SnoutFever.
Rex leads Atari away. King, Boss, and Duke follow soberly -leaving Chief behind, alone.
(NOTE: Atari walks with a noticeable limp for the entirety of the
story.)
EXT. JUNK-YARD. DAY
The four dogs walk with Atari among dozens of scattered, upended
dog-cages. On-looking-dogs watch them from a distance. Rex
explains as they go:
REX
I never met him, but I asked around. I understand he
made a lot of friends. He had a very good-natured
temperament, I’m told. Of course, you would know best.
It’s just a bit further up here on the left. Anyway, as
I say, he seems to have been an extremely pleasant
animal.
Rex stops at a plastic dog-cage in the exact position where Spots
originally fell. There is a dog-skeleton inside. Atari stares
down blankly.
INSERT:
A hand-dyed silk dog-collar. Its I.D. tag is caked with mud, but
the first three letters remain clear: Spo-.
Atari clenches his fists. Rex says softly:
REX
Unfortunately, nobody could figure out how to open his
dog-cage.
King, Boss, and Duke nod sadly.
CLOSE-UP:

Atari’s troubled face.
TITLE:
3 Years Earlier
INSERT:
A television screen mounted high on an ice-blue wall below an
acoustic-tile ceiling. The news-anchor reports while the
interpreter translates:
INTERPRETER (V.O.)
The sole survivor of last week’s colossal bullet-train
disaster, a young boy named Atari, awoke from a deepcoma early this morning to learn of his parents’ tragic
deaths -The reporter continues over a pre-recorded feed of: footage of
Mayor Kobayashi smiling broadly as he poses holding-up a woodblock-print yearbook-picture of Atari; footage of the wreckage of
a derailed commuter-train; a wood-block-print of Atari’s deceased
parents at their wedding; footage of a traditional Japanese
funeral; a post-card-image of the imposing, Gothic mayoral
residence; and Spots’ official wood-block-print press-portrait.
INTERPRETER (V.O.)
-- and also the intention of his distant-uncle, Mayor
Kobayashi, to personally adopt him as ward to the
mayoral-household. Upon his release from Megasaki
General, Atari (who suffered the loss of his right
kidney and numerous broken bones in the crash) will
live in sequestered quarters within the confines of
Brick Mansion, where he will be educated in solitude by
private tutors. Atari has also been assigned a
security-detail for his own protection in the form of a
highly-trained bodyguard-dog named Spots Kobayashi.
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM. DAY
Atari lies in traction propped-up on an electric bed with both
legs elevated by pulleys and harnesses, one broken arm encased in
a plaster-cast, and a swirl of bandages wrapped around his head.
Spots waits, obedient, on the floor. He looks worried and sad. In
a scratchy, sinister voice (in Japanese), Major-Domo explains the
details of the current situation to both the boy and the dog.
Spots adds gently:

SPOTS
You’re my new master. My name is Spots. I’m at your
service. I’ll be protecting your welfare and safety on
an ongoing-basis. In other words: I’m your dog.
Atari hesitates. He extends his good hand, palm down. Spots
promptly approaches, licks the back of Atari’s hand, and bows,
deferential. Atari strokes the top of Spots’ head and scratches
under his chin. Against their best efforts, they both begin to
quietly cry.
Major-Domo watches, mortified. He interrupts with a sudden
question in Japanese. Atari and Spots both look at him. They
hesitate. Major-Domo explodes (subtitled in English):
MAJOR-DOMO
Security-detail! Bodyguard-dog! Not pet!
Silence. Atari and Spots look at each other again, confused and
troubled. They do not know what to do.
A technician enters the room carrying two secret-service-type
earphones. He installs one in Atari’s ear and one in Spots’. (The
diode-light on each wire activates, blinking green.)
Major-Domo instructs Atari briefly. Atari reluctantly puts his
finger to his earphone and, looking to Spots, speaks at a low
whisper. A few words of distinct Japanese crackle from Spots’
earphone. His eyes light-up. He blurts eagerly, moved:
SPOTS
I can hear you, Master Atari-san!
Atari’s eyes continue to well-up with tears. His lips quiver as
he whispers to his dog; and Spots’ body shakes as he listens,
nodding and repeating softly:
SPOTS
I can hear you. I can hear you. I can hear you.
CUT TO:
The dog-skeleton.
Atari unzips a pocket and produces a small, orange locker-key
labeled: Master Pass-Key. He kneels and pulls a safety-catch
before unlocking the bolt and flipping open the door. The livingdogs groan and grimace with frustration. Rex mutters:

REX
You need a key.
Atari wipes away his tears with his sleeve. He turns and walks
away. Rex, King, and Duke follow him. They stride past several
on-looking-dogs -- including Chief, who, at some point, has
seated himself in the path behind them. He does not acknowledge
them as they pass.
Boss pokes his nose into the cage. He looks down at the dirty
I.D. tag.
INT. LABORATORY. DAY
A hydraulic sliding-door opens, and Professor Watanabe and Yokoono enter a bright-white scientific research facility. A juniorscientist gives a progress-report about a research-dog with tubes
in its nose, I.V. drips in its legs, pulse-sensors on its paws,
and a thermometer in its mouth. The juniorscientist checks the
dog’s temperature and injects it with a shot of blue serum. He
hands Professor Watanabe a computer punch-card.
INSERT:
The punch-card. There is text all over it in Japanese. The one
sentence in English is a bold-faced:
Dog-Flu: CURED.
The camera dollies half-way across the laboratory to a second
junior-scientist who gives a progress-report about a research-dog
with wires attached to its legs, neck, ears, and tail. There is a
wooden dowel clenched in its mouth, and an I.V. drip of blue
serum in its veins. The junior-scientist pulls a switch, zapping
the dog with a high-voltage electro-shock. The dog grits its
teeth and convulses. The junior-scientist checks a zig-zagging
brain-monitor read-out and makes a careful notation. He hands
Professor Watanabe another computer punch-card.
INSERT:
The next punch-card:
Snout-Fever: TREATABLE.
The camera dollies the rest of the way across the laboratory to a
third junior-scientist who gives a progress-report about two
research-dogs waiting on a platform amidst a profusion of
cameras, lasers, microphones, and various data-gathering devices.

The junior-scientist drops a droplet of blue serum onto each
dog’s tongue. He toggles a lever, and an X-ray screen rises-up
from the floor in front of the couple to display the activity of
their bones only as they begin to mate. The male dog turns to
look uncertainly toward the viewers. The junior-scientist hands
Professor Watanabe another computer punch-card.
INSERT:
The final punch-card:
Litter-Reduction: 72%.
The X-ray screen goes blank and slides back down into the floor.
The two dogs approach politely. The lead junior-scientist gives
them each a treat.
The camera dollies into a small chamber where a fourth juniorscientist fills a rack of precisely-calibrated test-tubes with
clear liquid from a beaker. He pipettes a droplet of red into
each sample. Professor Watanabe, Yoko-ono, and the four juniorscientists each pick up a test-tube, clink them together, and
congratulate each other in Japanese. They drink the contents down
in one slug.
MONTAGE:
1. A cut-away view of a hole in the ground three feet deep. The
dog-cage with the skeleton inside descends on the end of a dirty
rope and comes to rest at the bottom of the pit. Rex, King, Boss,
and Duke begin energetically piling dirt and garbage into the
open grave as Atari recites a prayer in Japanese. On the top of
an adjacent ridge, Chief ignores the funeral-goers as he digs
through a trash-pile.
2. The crash-site. Atari whistles a bellicose Japanese folk-tune
as he hammers dents out of a detached plane-wing. Rex, King,
Boss, and Duke gather assorted bits of wreckage and help clean
the cockpit and fuselage. On a nearby rubbish-heap, Chief ignores
the repair-workers as he hunts for rats.
3. Atari whistles the folk-tune as he sits with Rex, King, Boss,
and Duke in a row at one end of a metal beam like a high-rise
construction crew. They eat grimy dinner-scraps out of cans,
jars, and paper bags. Alone at the far other end, Chief chews on
a broken chicken-bone.
4. Atari continues whistling the folk-tune as he wires a half-

dead car-battery to the electronic core of the plane’s instrument
panel. All the gauges on the instrument panel suddenly spring to
life. Atari yelps with enthusiasm. Rex, King, Duke, and Boss look
impressed. Atari immediately begins to tinker with switches and
knobs. As he does so: The camera booms down to the underside of
the fuselage revealing a small black-box labeled in Japanese and
English: Flight-Data/Transponder. A tiny red light on the bottom
of it blinks-on and pulses. (Atari and the five dogs are unaware
of this occurrence.)
5. A control-tower with views of the river, air-traffic/war-roomtype consoles, and an enormous, illuminated, Plexiglas table-map
of Trash Island. Large glowing letters across the wall read:
Municipal Task Force, Dog-Catchers Division. A blip appears on
the map. A technician presses buttons and zooms-in on it. He
turns and shouts to his supervisor in Japanese.
EXT. BEACH. DAY
Atari sits inside the little airplane’s cock-pit, strapped-in
with his helmet on. The propeller is spinning. Dust kicks-up all
around. He gives a salute.
Rex, King, Boss, and Duke wait at the water’s edge. Rex nods,
proud and respectful. Further down the shore, Chief sits,
watching.
(Parts of the airplane appear to be held together with rope and
twine, while other parts seem to have been replaced with bits of
scrap-metal and salvage-plastic. One of the wheels of the
landing-gear comes from a wheelbarrow.)
Atari throttles forward. The engine sputters, then roars. The
airplane inches along the bumpy shore-line and begins to slowly
pick-up speed. Rex frowns. He squints at something attached to
Boss’ collar.
REX
Where’d you get that?
Boss hesitates. King and Duke stare at Boss’ collar: he is
wearing two I.D. tags. Boss stammers:
BOSS
What? I always had this. The Dragons gave it to me.
(pause)
I stole it off the dead skeleton.

Rex bolts. Boss looks to King and Duke, confused.
CUT TO:
The make-shift runway as the airplane rattles frantically,
speeding over the trash-littered sand. Atari pulls back on the
yoke, and the wheels lift-up off the ground. The airplane rises
smoothly into the air. Atari adjusts the flaps. He looks
sideways.
Rex is running at a desperate sprint just below and alongside the
airplane. He shouts wildly, but his voice is drowned-out by the
blasting engine. Atari hesitates. Rex screams:
REX
The wrong dog died!
Atari looks perplexed. He makes a snap decision and slams back on
the throttle. The airplane drops roughly back down to earth and
bounces twice, rocking and twisting. Rex looks terrified. The
wheels chop into the sand. Atari steers serpentine among garbagebags like traffic on a motorway. A hunk of rubble clips off one
wing. A chunk of scrap clips off the other wing. Atari hits the
brakes, hollering, as the airplane skids, kicking up a shower of
dirt, then slams nose-down into the ground.
Atari rockets shattering through the glass cockpit-canopy and
lands seated on top of a gravel-pile. He flips-open his facemask. Rex dashes up to him and says breathlessly:
REX
The wrong dog died.
Boss, King, and Duke arrive at Rex’s side. Rex motions to Boss’
collar.
INSERT:
The dead skeleton’s I.D. tag with the dirt cleaned-off. It now
reads, in full: Sport.
Atari stares at the tag. He looks to Rex, electrified. Rex nods.
REX
He’s not Spots.
Atari nods and repeats this in Japanese. Chief, some distance
away with his back to the others, says darkly:

CHIEF
Who’s that?
A single, very large dog in black silhouette sits watching from
the top of a rise across the clearing. Its eyes glow like two
beady little yellow light-bulbs. Chief sniffs the air and says
curiously, puzzled:
CHIEF
I can’t smell him.
INT. MAYORAL RESIDENCE. DAY
A dimly lit private bath-house. There is a large landscape-mural
on the back wall depicting a pastoral brook with footbridges,
cherry trees, a snow-capped mountain in the distance -- and
numerous prancing cats all across the landscape. Mayor Kobayashi
soaks in a round, wooden tub while Professor Watanabe sits next
to him on a cedar bench with Yoko-ono at his side. Major-Domo, in
a black kimono, ladles a spoonful of water over a dish of hot
rocks on top of a small, glowing furnace. Steam sizzles into the
air.
Professor Watanabe is in the middle of an impassioned plea in
Japanese. As he describes his methods, solutions, and
determinations, he hands the mayor the three punch-cards from the
laboratory and summarizes in English:
PROFESSOR WATANABE
Dog-Flu: no more. Snout-Fever: no more. Canine
Saturation-level: sustainable.
A black telephone rings. The mayor holds up his finger for the
professor to wait. He picks up the receiver and talks briefly in
a brusque whisper. He finishes his conversation and hangs up.
Pause. The mayor examines the punch-cards individually, back and
front. He shakes his head and mumbles. He re-examines the punchcards, mumbling further. Finally, he opens the door of the
furnace with a pair of tongs and slips the punch-cards neatly
into the fire. They instantly burn to ash and smoke. The mayor
shuts the furnace and says, smiling gently, almost laughing (in
English):
MAYOR KOBAYASHI
Dogs stay Trash Island.
The mayor turns away and stands up in the tub. (His back is

covered with yakuza tattoos.) Major-Domo appears. He snaps open a
white towel and holds it out for the mayor, and the mayor steps
out of the tub, whisking the towel around himself. Major-Domo
follows him briskly out of the room.
The professor and Yoko-ono sit in stunned silence.
EXT. SECOND CRASH-SITE. DAY
Atari, Chief, Rex, King, Boss, and Duke crouch on the ground next
to the re-demolished airplane. Whirling winds blast around them.
Atari squints and shields his eyes as he looks up to: a rumbling
rescue-drone thirty feet above, slowly descending. Steel rotors
whir on the top of the machine. Small propellers spin on the
bottom of it. Decalled around the base is: Municipal Task Force.
Atari looks left to: a robot-dog (in military mode) twenty feet
away positioned calmly on the inland side of the clearing,
blocking Atari and the five dogs’ path.
Atari looks right to: three men in silver jump-suits and metallic
helmets ten feet away on the shore in front of an amphibious,
six-wheeled landing-craft. Stencilled across each man’s chest is:
M.T.F. Dog-Catchers Division. One dog-catcher carries a
telescoping dog-net that opens and closes automatically. One
carries an electronic billy-club with a cattle-prod zapper on the
end. The third holds a silver remote-control.
INSERT:
An electronic-eye mounted on the underside of the rescue-drone.
It pans slightly.
A booming voice over a loud-speaker addresses Atari by name and
gives urgent instructions in Japanese. Atari glares-up at the
hovering vessel. He shakes his fists and unleashes a stream of
Japanese profanity. Rex says strategically:
REX
Chief, you fight the robot-dog. King, Duke, Boss? You
attack the three dog-catchers. I’ll guard the little
pilot. On my command. Ready? Sic-’em!
CHIEF
(interrupting)
Wait a second! I’m not going to fight this robot! I’m
against the little pilot. I don’t even believe in
masters.

REX
(fired-up)
You’re the best in a scrap. We all know that. You like
to fight. Just be a distraction, and we’ll do the rest.
DUKE
(reasonably)
Let’s take a vote.
REX
(instantly)
All in favor of Chief fighting the robot-dog, say
“Aye”.
Four “Ayes” and one “Nay”. Chief frowns. Atari unzips one of his
pockets and produces a bamboo sling-shot. He loads it with a lugnut.
INSERT:
A monitor-screen at the control-tower. A technician watches an
infra-green image of Atari aiming his sling-shot and firing at
the lens of the electronic-eye. The screen splinters into
minutely-fragmented cracked-glass. The technician chatters
rapidly in Japanese with two other technicians watching over his
shoulder.
CUT TO:
Atari grinning furiously as he loads-up a second lug-nut and
prepares to shoot again -- but, just at that instant:
The rescue-drone peppers Atari and the five dogs with pellets
from a small-gauge repeater-gun. The dogs jump and yelp. The
first dog-catcher immediately slings his dog-net over Atari’s
head in one swoop. The dog-net contracts instantly, and jerks
Atari into the dog-catcher’s grip. Atari fights and yells in a
fury. The second dog-catcher zaps-away at the dogs again. The
third points his silver remote-control at the robot-dog and
presses a button.
A brief, electronic roar blasts across the landscape. (The robotdog’s bark sounds like a cross between an elephant and a 747.) A
set of bayonets emerges from under the robot-dog’s metallic skin.
Its canine-teeth retract and are replaced by even longer, sharper
blades. Protective metal fighting-screens close over its glowing
eye-balls. It charges in an explosion of spectacular, murderous
violence.

Chief looks grievously annoyed. He intercepts the robot-dog,
bobbing, weaving, snapping, and biting in angry desperation and
terror.
INSERT:
Chief gets his jaws around one of the robot-dog’s ears. It popsoff suddenly.
Chief and the robot-dog separate and pause. They both look
surprised. The robot-dog sees its ear held gingerly in Chief’s
teeth. Chief bolts, racing away in a circling retreat around the
ongoing dog/dog-catcher fracas with the enraged robot-dog an inch
behind him.
The first dog-catcher fights Rex and Atari, scratching and
shouting. The second dog-catcher fights Boss, biting and zapping.
The third dog-catcher punches more buttons on his silver remotecontrol as he watches the robot-dog chasing Chief in a frenzy.
From two directions at once: King and Duke launch slamming into
the third dog-catcher’s body. The remote-control spins out of his
hands and skitters away across the filthy ground.
Rex rips into the dog-net with his teeth and unzips it from
around Atari’s head. Atari wrestles-free and jumps away as Rex
seizes the first dog-catcher’s ankle.
The robot-dog catches Chief by the tail, pins him to the ground
neatly with its paws, roars again, and strikes at Chief’s jugular
vein -- but, in a flash:
The robot-dog reverse-transforms into a robotic lap-dog and sitsback on its hind-legs.
Chief looks shocked. He spits-out the robot-dog’s detached ear.
He turns immediately toward the others and sees: Atari hunkered
behind a half-buried, side-long refrigerator with the silver
remote-control in his hands. He presses a button on it.
The robotic lap-dog rolls over and begs.
Up above: the rescue-drone rotates one way then another, adrift.
It bounces slightly off a tram-cable. Sparks shower.
INSERT:
The shattered-screen live-feed as the technician at the controltower struggles to blindly operate the rescue-drone, typing

commands, spinning knobs, toggling a joy-stick.
CUT TO:
The confused dog-catchers looking from the meandering rescuedrone to the robotic lap-dog and back again as: Chief quickly
staggers off in one direction; Rex, King, Duke, and Boss scramble
off in another; and Atari dashes away excitedly in a third.
A wire snarls around the rescue-drone’s tail-rudder. The rescuedrone pulls and stretches in an attempt to free itself -- then
the cable snaps and flies-up into the whirling rotors. The
tangled rescue-drone recoils and teeters, struggles and sputters,
then inverts and shoots-flat straight down into the ground as the
dog-catchers race away in different directions.
There is a thundering impact; then a miniature, but nevertheless
impressive, nuclear explosion.
INSERT:
An infra-green, security-camera still-image on the screen of a
television set showing: Atari on the beach glaring up at the
electronic-eye, teeth gritted in a look of sheer, warlike
determination. The five dogs at his side look angry and
ferocious. (A caption on the image reads: Rescue-Drone
Surveillance-Feed.) A dynamic, local-news wipe brings us to a
talk-show set with two swiveling arm-chairs where the news-anchor
interviews Mayor Kobayashi in Japanese. The mayor pets a Siamese
cat in his lap while he talks. The interpreter translates the
mayor’s statement:
INTERPRETER (V.O.)
My ward, Atari, has been kidnapped against his will by
a pack of disobedient, contagious, infected animals. He
will be rescued promptly, returned to safety, and
grounded for the duration of his childhood years. His
five dog-abductors have been identified through the use
of advanced Tooth-and-Tail Recognition Software:
MONTAGE:
An elderly man surrounded by children in a math classroom holds
up a wood-block-print of a clean and cheery Rex. A rotund man in
a white apron standing in front of a hundred stacked cans labeled
Doggy-Chop holds up a wood-block-print of a fresh-scrubbed King.
The captain of a high-school baseball team down on one knee
alongside his team-mates holds up a wood-block-print of Boss

gripping a baseball in his teeth. A middle-aged matron holds up a
wood-block-print of Duke soaking in a bubble-bath. An
expressionless dog-catcher holds up Chief’s dog-pound wood-blockprint mug-shot.
INTERPRETER (V.O.)
They will, of course, be captured and violently
destroyed.
The news-anchor looks to the camera. The stage-lights dim for a
commercial. Mayor Kobayashi jerks a lavalier off his lapel and
strides off the set in the darkness with his cat in his arms.
INSERT:
A battery-powered torch-light hanging from a discarded coat-tree.
A small plastic badge reads: Atari K.
INT. DOG-HOVEL. DAY
The interior of the five dogs’ cave, a formation of smashed carparts and crushed kitchen-machines. Under the torch-light’s glow,
Atari administers first-aid from a flight-kit. Rex’s leg has
three bandages on it. King’s right eye has a gauze patch
adhesive-taped over it. Duke wears five bright-blue stitches
across his forehead. Atari plucks a last pellet from Boss’ right
flank with tweezers. Boss mutters:
BOSS
Chief ought to get a check-up, too. He looks worse than
anybody.
Chief has a split lip, a bloody nose, and one eye nearly swollenshut. He stands alone just outside the pooled light. Atari stands
up and begins a speech (in Japanese). He goes on at some length.
He points his finger into the air and shakes his fists. Duke
says, aside:
DUKE
I wish somebody spoke his language.
Atari scrunches up his face in pain and rage. He shouts
(subtitled in English):
ATARI
Starting right now. From this second: you are all my
dogs!
(thundering in semi-English:)
Sit-o!

KING
(briskly)
Well, I understood that. Sit down.
Rex, King, Duke, and Boss all sit down at once. Atari’s face
fills with strange emotion and power. He hollers a defiant oath
in Japanese. He frowns. He repeats:
ATARI
Sit-o.
Rex hesitates. He turns and sees: Chief has remained on his feet,
obstinate. Rex hollers:
REX
Chief! Sit!
CHIEF
(simply)
I don’t sit.
Rex seethes. He growls, furious:
REX
You’re disobedient!
Pause. Chief curls away and disappears through a drain-pipe.
Atari looks hurt. He scratches his head. He flicks a switch on a
transistor-radio. A martial-version of the folk-tune with drums
and chants echoes from a tinny little speaker. He stands akimbo
and stares into space. The remaining dogs look intrigued but
uneasy.
CUT TO:
Another rescue-drone gliding through the air with its helicopterspotlight searching and scanning across the landscape. It pivots
left and right before it continues away into the background. Two
more rescue-drones criss-cross in the middle-distance. The camera
booms down to reveal the dog-hovel’s entrance tunnel. Chief’s
head pokes out.
EXT. JUNK-YARD. NIGHT
Black rats crawl and screech in the rubble around the base of a
waste-water tank. A leaky water-spout drips into a tin gardenpail. Chief approaches. He sits back on his hind legs and watches
the droplets plip-plop, one-by-one. A cricket chirps. Waves roll.
Chief laps-up a sip from the bucket. A smoky, alto-voice says

from above:
NUTMEG
I wouldn’t drink that, if I were you.
Chief jumps and looks up to the top of the water tank where
Nutmeg (the long-limbed spaniel with the shampooed coat) stares
down at him from behind her silky ears. She lies on her stomach
with her front paws hanging draped over the edge of the tank.
NUTMEG
It’s full of toxic chemicals.
CHIEF
(with his mouth full of water)
How do you know?
NUTMEG
Because my sister-in-law drank it, and her tongue
turned black.
CHIEF
Oh.
Chief spits out the water. Pause. He blurts:
CHIEF
You’re Felix’s mate.
NUTMEG
(taken aback)
I beg your pardon?
CHIEF
(back-peddling)
I mean, I think you mated with Felix, if I heard it
right.
NUTMEG
(deeply insulted)
That’s none of your business.
CHIEF
No, I don’t suggest whether it actually happened or
not. I’m just saying I recognize you from when I heard
that rumor.
NUTMEG
(with finality)

I think I’m going to say good-night.
CHIEF
(desperate)
Wait. Start over. Who cares about Felix? I’m Chief.
(quietly)
That’s my name.
NUTMEG
(evenly)
I see.
CHIEF
(clearing his throat)
I’m introducing myself. Who are you?
NUTMEG
I thought you knew all about me.
CHIEF
I don’t know anything. I should’ve kept my mouth shut.
It’s all hearsay. Anyway, you’re Nutmeg.
NUTMEG
So you do know me, after all.
CHIEF
After all? Yes.
Pause. Chief lowers his voice, provocative:
CHIEF
You a show-dog, Nutmeg?
Nutmeg bristles. She says coolly, defensive:
NUTMEG
I was bred as a show-dog. I was groomed for that
purpose. It wasn’t my choice, and I don’t consider it
my identity. Anyway, look around. What difference does
it make now?
CHIEF
So that’s a yes.
NUTMEG
So that’s a: yes, I used to be.
CHIEF

(suddenly)
May I join you?
Without waiting for an answer, Chief disappears behind the water
tank, clanks up what sounds to be a metallic spiral-staircase,
and presents himself directly in front of Nutmeg. Only now does
she see his injuries. She gasps slightly:
NUTMEG
You’ve been attacked.
CHIEF
(shrugs)
What else is new? You should see the other dog.
Actually, I think he’s made of stainless-steel. I
couldn’t get my teeth into him.
NUTMEG
(pause)
Who is the little pilot? What’d he do? Why are they
after him?
CHIEF
Nobody knows.
Chief and Nutmeg look out at the city, across the river. The
distant rescue-drones cruise and circle. Nutmeg asks softly:
NUTMEG
You’re a stray, aren’t you?
CHIEF
I’m a stray, sure -(with savoir-faire)
-- but aren’t we all? In the last analysis, I mean.
Pause. Nutmeg licks a speck of dirt off her paw. She sits up
tall, especially poised.
CHIEF
Were you trained? For competition.
NUTMEG
(shrugs)
I was a show-dog.
CHIEF
(seen-it-all)
You know a few tricks, then.

NUTMEG
A few.
CHIEF
(suddenly eager)
Can I see one?
NUTMEG
(gently)
Maybe if I get to know you better.
CHIEF
(pause)
Fair enough.
NUTMEG
It’s not true, by the way. About me and Felix. For the
record.
(pause)
I wouldn’t bring puppies into this world.
Chief nods. He says carefully:
CHIEF
I don’t believe in masters. I never did. It’s against
my principles -- but this is no place for a dog like
you. You belong somewhere. You’ve got papers.
NUTMEG
(playful)
I’m full-grown, sweetheart. You don’t have to worry
about me.
(pause)
Good-night.
Nutmeg trots across the top of the water tank to the staircase.
Chief hesitates. He stutters slightly:
CHIEF
I hope I’ll see you again.
Nutmeg waits a beat. She turns around and stares at Chief. She
says finally:
NUTMEG
Here’s one.
CHIEF
(pause)

One what?
Nutmeg springs up onto a single hind-leg, spins a rapid rotation,
then raises a front-paw into the air and stares up at it.
NUTMEG
I’m supposed to be spinning a nine-pound bowling-ball
over my head at this point, but you just have to
imagine that part.
CHIEF
(instantly)
I can picture it.
Nutmeg ends the trick. She asks softly, just-curious:
NUTMEG
Will you help him? The little pilot.
CHIEF
(long pause)
Why should I?
NUTMEG
(surprised at the question)
Because he’s a twelve-year-old boy. Dogs love those.
Nutmeg pads away down the steps. Chief sits alone, silent.
CUT TO:
Atari curled-up under a tarp. The music has stopped. Rex, King,
Duke, and Boss sit huddled on the floor nearby. They confer in
hushed voices:
KING
Spots, whoever he is, might be alive, and he might be
dead, but one thing’s for sure: he’s nowhere around
here. He’s not in the dog-community.
DUKE
There’s probably another five hundred Japanese-hectares
of unmapped wasteland on Trash Island (at least). Where
do we start?
BOSS
Also, the mental-health question: maybe it’s because of
that propeller-clutch stuck in the side of his head (I
can’t say, I’m not a doctor), but I think the little

pilot’s got a screw loose.
REX
Those are the cons.
DUKE
(interrupting)
You heard the rumor, right? About the little pilot.
Rex, King, and Boss mumble and mutter simultaneously again.
(”What rumor?” “Remind us again.” “I never heard it.” Etc.) Duke
says, mysterious:
DUKE
Kobayashi’s his distant uncle. He’s the mayor’s ward.
Rex, King, and Boss look surprised and slightly perplexed. Rex
resumes his speech:
REX
Be that as it may, let’s look at the pros. That boy
flew here, all alone, and crash-landed onto this island
for one reason and one reason only: to find his dog. To
the best of my knowledge, no other master, not one
single human master, has made any effort to do that.
They’ve forgotten all about us.
King, Duke, and Boss nod, thoughtful, taking the point. Rex says
soberly:
REX
I propose we start tomorrow at first-light. We’ll cross
the Middle Fingers. We’ll find the Tug-boat on the
Dune. We’ll go see Jupiter and Oracle. They’ll know
what to do. Let’s take a vote. All in favor say “Aye”.
They vote: four “Ayes” -- and an unexpected, off-screen “Nay”.
Rex frowns.
REX
Who’s the nay-sayer?
Three “hims”, one “me”. They all stare at: Chief, who has quietly
joined them just outside their circle. He says soberly:
CHIEF
That kid’s going to get us all put to sleep.
Euthanized.

Chief approaches. He lowers himself to the ground and says with
dead-certainty:
CHIEF
We won’t find the dog, but we’ll die trying.
Rex nods. He shrugs and says quietly:
REX
Not a bad way to go. You’re out-voted, anyway.
EXT. TRADITIONAL INN. DAY
An ancient, wooden building on stilts over a winding brook. Two
bodyguards with sub-machine-guns flank the entrance. The newsanchor, standing in a Zen garden in front of the structure,
speaks into the camera while the interpreter translates:
INTERPRETER
Science-Party Candidate Professor Watanabe has been
placed under house-arrest today at Toho Mountain Ryokan
after offering sharp criticism last night of the
Kobayashi Administration’s Canine Saturation-crisis
policy:
INSERT:
A portable television set with a plastic label which reads: A.V.
Dept. On-screen: Professor Watanabe rants in a furious rage to an
off-camera interviewer. Yoko-ono waits, uneasy, in the background. The interpreter delivers a somewhat softened version of
the professor’s comments:
INTERPRETER (V.O.)
Respectfully, I submit that the dog-banishment program
known as the Trash Island Decree serves neither the
public welfare nor the civic good. My simple message to
Mayor Kobayashi: terminate your unjust policy.
Without explanation: Professor Watanabe reaches into his breastpocket, takes out a serum-vial of the blue liquid, and shows it
to the camera. He looks exhausted, on the verge of tears.
INT. HIGH SCHOOL. DAY
A classroom over-looking an elevated motorway. A bold-faced
banner above the chalkboard reads in English: Megasaki Senior
High Daily-Manifesto. A fifteen-year-old student dressed in
black, military-style school-uniform with a Mao-jacket powers-off

the television set with a crackle. He is Editor-Hiroshi.
As he paces, Editor-Hiroshi talks rapidly, out-loud but half to
himself. Nine other students in the same black uniforms seated in
a sprawled jumble (they comprise the Daily-Manifesto staff) joinin jabbering in a general cacophony. One wears a black beret;
another has on beatnik-style sunglasses; several wear Pro-Dog
head-bands. Suddenly, Editor-Hiroshi stops short and shouts for
silence. He points.
CUT TO:
A slender white hand raised-up into the air in the back row
behind the rest of the Daily-Manifesto staff. Everyone turns
around in their school-chairs and looks, revealing: Tracy Walker
(the golden-haired girl from the Municipal Dome audience). She is
dressed in the female version of the black school-uniform, which
roughly resembles a sailor’s costume. Editor-Hiroshi gives her
the floor.
EDITOR-HIROSHI
Foreign-exchange-student Walker.
Tracy stands up. She speaks politely but assertively. (This
conversation is conducted in English.)
TRACY
Thank you, Editor-Hiroshi. You all know me. I speak my
mind, and sometimes that ruffles some feathers. Please,
forgive my bluntness. Mayor Kobayashi is a crook, and I
hate him. Right now, he faces a divided congress during
a hotly-contested re-election year. Dogs are dying on a
miserable island. Gullible masters have been
brainwashed. The Science-Party Candidate is being held
against his will with no recourse to legal counsel.
Somebody’s up to something.
A wave of murmuring ripples through the Daily-Manifesto staff.
Editor-Hiroshi asks Tracy, intrigued:
EDITOR-HIROSHI
You have a conspiracy theory?
Long pause. Tracy concedes:
TRACY
I have a hunch.
Another wave of murmuring. Editor-Hiroshi says brusquely,

dismissive:
EDITOR-HIROSHI
I don’t print hunch.
Editor-Hiroshi turns away and begins to write in Japanese on the
chalkboard. An eraser slaps into the back of his head with a puff
of chalk. He spins around. Tracy, now on her feet, brandishes a
second eraser. She says with dark drama:
TRACY
I’ll spell it out. I believe Municipal Dome propaganda
has deliberately stoked irrational, Anti-Dog fear and
suppressed a medically proven Dog-Flu treatment in
order to promote a secret campaign to turn the country
against its innocent house-pets. There. I said it.
The room erupts with a chattering range of reactions: surprise,
disbelief, vindication, alarm, and amusement. Editor-Hiroshi
silences the room again and says to Tracy:
EDITOR-HIROSHI
Can you prove it?
Tracy takes a deep breath. She says earnestly:
TRACY
I don’t know. To tell you the truth: I don’t know.
The Daily-Manifesto staff mulls this over. Editor-Hiroshi says
finally:
EDITOR-HIROSHI
You got forty-eight hour.
INT. MAYORAL RESIDENCE. NIGHT
A boardroom with a long, black-lacquered conference-table and a
landscape-mural on the wall depicting a snowy garden outside a
Shinto temple. Mayor Kobayashi, at the head of the table with his
Siamese cat in his lap, addresses (in Japanese) a seated group. A
middle-aged, balding stenographer taps away throughout the
meeting. There is a small device labeled Simul-Translate attached
to the stenotype machine. Its slightly metallic voice renders the
mayor’s comments into English:
SIMUL-TRANSLATE (V.O.)
As you know, we all hate dogs.

The camera pans from the mayor to a reedy, bespectacled-executive
in a three-piece suit. A short-haired white cat with a ring
around its eye sits in his lap.
SIMUL-TRANSLATE (V.O.)
Chairman Fujimoto-san, President of Kobayashi
Pharmaceutical. You secretly introduced mega-quantities
of infected fleas and contagious tick-larvae into a
metropolitan city center, creating an unprecedented
animal-disease outbreak. Thank you.
The group applauds politely as the camera pans from the
bespectacled-executive to a high-ranking, square-jawed militaryofficer in uniform with medals and decorations displayed across
his breast-pocket. A spotted yellow tom-cat sits in his lap.
SIMUL-TRANSLATE (V.O.)
General Yamatachi-san, Commander of the Kobayashi
Municipal Task Force. You oversaw the deportation of
over 750,000 caged-animals to a nearly uninhabitable,
off-shore refuse-center. Good work.
The group applauds politely as the camera pans from the militaryofficer to a technology-tycooness with a shellacked-bouffant
hair-do and a boldly patterned kimono with a fur collar. A fluffy
orange tabby sits in her lap.
SIMUL-TRANSLATE (V.O.)
Supervisor Kitano-san, Director of Kobayashi Robotics.
You developed the most promising artificial life-form
in the history of corporate-technology -- and a
powerful new weapon, to boot. Well done.
The group applauds politely as the camera pans from the
technology-tycooness to a yakuza-gangster in a Nehru-jacket
featuring a diamond-stud just below the neck. A white-eyed black
cat sits in his lap.
SIMUL-TRANSLATE (V.O.)
Yakuza Nakamura-san, Head of the Clenched-Fist Gang.
You eliminated all Pro-Dog opposition through the use
of bribery, extortion, intimidation, and violent force.
My compliments.
The group applauds politely as the camera pans from the yakuzagangster back to the mayor.
SIMUL-TRANSLATE (V.O.)

Brains have been washed. Wheels have been greased. Fear
has been mongered. Now we prepare for the final stage
of our conspiracy-theory: the permanent end to the
Canine Saturation-crisis.
CUT TO:
A sign being hoisted above the entrance to a construction-site.
Bold, metallic letters in Japanese and English read: Trash Island
Temporary Dog-Camp #1. Two bull-dozers shove rubbish back-andforth along the edges of a freshly cleared plot. Rows of chainlink fencing divide and segment the compound into numerous
paddocks and corrals. Plastic refugee-dog holding-pens have been
installed in long rows and columns stacked three-high. A metal
control-shed has been erected near the entrance. Dog-catcher
construction-crews drill, saw, and hammer.
Nearby, a broad-shouldered commanding dog-catcher (wearing a cap
rather than the helmet worn by the others) responds to questions
from a TV news-reporter while the interpreter translates:
INTERPRETER
We believe we’ve recovered a viable DNA sample from
this article of damaged aviation equipment. We’re going
to check it right now if you care to observe.
The commander holds-up a ziploc bag labeled: Clue-Pouch. He
unzip-locs it and withdraws Atari’s broken propeller-clutch, then
kneels down in front of one of the robot-dogs and holds-up the
propeller-clutch to its nose. A pair of small ducts on the robotdog’s snout slide-open. It electronically inhales. A little
speaker emits a low-pitched ding. A tiny screen on the robotdog’s throat lights-up.
INSERT:
The screen. It flickers rapidly, shuffling like a slot-machine -then freezes, showing: the infra-green Atari/sling-shot image.
The robot-dog turns away, searching the ground to pick-up the
scent, as the other four robot-dogs wait in line to sniff the
broken propeller-clutch.
The camera dollies to Atari’s destroyed fuselage. A very young
rookie dog-catcher (tall, exceedingly skinny, thin-necked,
wearing round spectacles inside his helmet) twists and tugs at
something in the wreckage. He pulls out: the FlightData/Transponder black-box. He stares at the device. He looks

around, furtive, then tucks it secretly inside his jump-suit.
INSERT:
The publicity wood-block-print of Spots in his dog-cage held in
Atari’s hand as his feet march along a sandy shore.
TITLE:
Part Two:
“The Search for Spots”
GRAPHIC:
A wood-block-print map of Trash Island. It identifies the three
major sections of the land-mass from south to north: The
Metropolitan Dumping-Grounds, The Middle Fingers, and The Faraway Cuticles. A dotted line charts the travelers’ course from
farthest south up to their current location in the middle of The
Middle Fingers.

NARRATOR (V.O.)
The Middle Fingers of Trash Island wind and weave upriver, interstitched by zig-zagging pipe-lines and
rusty viaducts.
MONTAGE:
Chief, Rex, King, Duke, and Boss follow Atari single-file down a
high-rail track alongside mounds of black ore and piles of white
gravel. They march up a skinny path through a canyon between rows
of hulking, steel tower-silos. They circle around the rim of an
exploded crater above the wreckage of a vast foundry dusted in
ash.
NARRATOR (V.O.)
The ruins of a failed utility-complex washed-out by
tsunami. The rubble of an abandoned power-plant
demolished by earthquake. The remains of a deserted
industrial-estate destroyed by volcanic blast.
EXT. ACCESS-ROAD. DAY
A straight and narrow tarmac runs along the edge of a weedy,
overgrown golf-course on a sand-bar between the river and the
bay. The black asphalt is cracked and fissured.
NARRATOR (V.O.)
The Old Trash Island Athletic Club, member-less and
long-forgotten.
Atari walks with extreme purpose, whistling the folk-tune. The
five dogs trail a few meters behind him. King asks a general
question:
KING
What’s your favorite food?
REX
A double-portion of Doggy-Chop from the can mixed into
a bowl of broken Puppy-Snaps with a vitamin crushed-up
into it.
BOSS
King’s the spokes-dog for that. He’s the Doggy-Chop
dog.
KING
Used to be.

DUKE
Was that your daily meal?
REX
Not always. My master was a school-teacher. We weren’t
rich. You?
KING
A center-cut Kobe rib-eye, seared, on the bone, with
salt and pepper.
REX
Wow.
KING
It was my birthday supper. Every year.
BOSS
Mine’s hot-sausage, yakitori-style. The snack vendor
always saved me one on game-days.
KING
Duke?
DUKE
Green-tea ice cream. My master had a sweet-tooth. I
probably inherited it from her.
(by-the-way:)
You heard the rumor, right? About Doggy-Chop.
Rex, King, and Boss mumble and mutter simultaneously again. (”Not
really.” “I don’t think so.” “What’s the rumor?” Etc.) Duke says
with an air of the inevitable:
DUKE
They folded.
This news hits King the hardest. He whimpers.
REX
How about you, Chief? What’s your favorite food?
Chief, as usual, brings up the rear. He says vaguely:
CHIEF
Me? I don’t care. Garbage, trash, scraps of rubbish.
I’m used to left-overs.
The other four dogs nod and murmur, thoughtful, sympathetic. A

beat.
CHIEF
Of course, I wasn’t always a stray.
Rex does a double-take. He hesitates.
REX
What’d you say?
CHIEF
I say, of course, I wasn’t always -The five dogs interrupt simultaneously, intrigued. (”Since when?”
“What do you mean?” “You had a master?” Etc.) Atari sits on a
concrete stump and massages a stitch out of his foot. (He wears
socks with a separation for the big toe.) Boss flops down onto
the asphalt. Rex stretches and cracks his neck. Duke leans-back
with his legs crossed. They all stare at Chief, anticipating.
Chief begins, reluctantly, at the beginning:
CHIEF
I’ve been hunted by dog-catchers all my life. I’m not
easy to trap. I’ve only got three captures on my record
(where I actually got sent to the pound, I mean), and
the first two times, I escaped within twenty-four hours
-(gravely)
-- but the third time, I got adopted before I could
finish digging the break-out-tunnel. It was a big
family. Five kids. Two other dogs, already. They stuck
me in the back of a station-wagon and drove me out to
the middle of the sticks. Grass, trees, a swimming
pool. Cartoons on T.V. Anyway, one morning a week
later, the youngest boy, his name was Toshiro, woke me
up at six-fifteen, bright-eyed, wide-awake -(quietly)
-- and tried to pet me. He didn’t mean anything by it.
He was just being friendly.
(pause)
Apparently, I bit him so hard I nearly chewed his hand
off. Blood all over the kitchen floor. They rushed him
to the emergency room, and I got padlocked out in the
tool-shed with the lights out. It gave me some time to
think.
(pained)
What happened? Why’d I do that? To this day, I have no

idea. I guess he scared me.
(simply)
I bite. That night, an old woman (she must’ve been the
grandmother) brought me out a bowl of home-made
hibachi-chili. I like to think she cooked it for me,
personally -- but who knows? Maybe it was just more
left-overs. (You’ve got a tick.)
Chief plucks a blood-sucking parasite off Rex’s skin with his
front teeth and spits it into a rusty peanut-can with a patink
like a spittoon. The other dogs listen solemnly as Chief
concludes:
CHIEF
Anyway, that’s my favorite food I ever ate. The old
woman made a great bowl of chili.
REX
(pause)
What happened after that?
CHIEF
(shrugs)
I dug my way out by morning, jumped on the back of a
dump-truck, and hitched back into Megasaki. I was
always a street-dog, let’s face it.
A branch snaps in the nearby, over-grown putting-green. (A
plastic flag on a pole reads: 7th Hole.) The five dogs turn
sharply. Atari is several paces ahead with his back to them -aiming his sling-shot at an unseen target. He says something in
Japanese. Chief nods and grunts. He says, ominous:
CHIEF
Somebody’s stalking us.
The tops of the tall grasses shiver: a little winding movement
which starts and stops, moving slowly in their direction. They
all wait, anxious, as: an enormous, grizzled, ancient, threelegged St. Bernard with a glass eye and the bearing of a Roman
senator floats crookedly into view. He is Jupiter. A small, smug
she-pug appears beside him. (Her I.D. tag reads: Oracle.)
Jupiter’s vocal cords have been brined, smoked, cured, charred,
and tuned-down half an octave. He asks:
JUPITER
Who’s the little pilot?

INT. SOUND-STAGE. NIGHT
The news-anchor reports from his desk, once again. (The
interpreter in her booth is joined this time by an eight-year-old
boy with freckles.)
INTERPRETER (V.O.)
Foreign-exchange-student Tracy Walker of the Megasaki
Senior High Daily-Manifesto has obtained an illicit
bootleg-copy of Atari Kobayashi’s official black-box
distress-signal recording:
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL. DAY
A small assembly in a compact, inner-city, cement recesscourt.
The Daily-Manifesto staff (including Editor-Hiroshi) all wear Tshirts silk-screened with the infra-green Atari drone image and
carry picket-signs wood-block-printed with pictures of each of
their dogs and its bold-faced name: Daisy, Bingo, Scrappy, Dixie,
Smoky, Hugs, Roscoe, Atom, Bandit, and Zap. Tracy at the front of
the group addresses the camera in English:
TRACY
We call upon dog-lovers everywhere to harken to this
transmission:
Editor-Hiroshi presses play on a hand-held memo-recorder. Atari’s
voice cuts through the static and the noise of his stuttering
engine.
JUVENILE INTERPRETER (V.O.)
May-day! May-day! Unscheduled Junior Turbo-Prop in
severe distress over Sapporo River. Engine-failure, and
-(a loud crunch)
-- detachment of left wing.
MONTAGE:
Young viewers across the city of Megasaki listen to Atari: five
brothers in their family den; five sisters in their family
kitchen; ten boys and girls in their school library; a gang of
teenagers at a neon-lit noodle-shop. (Each group is shot from
behind the television-viewers’ backs, with the same grainy infragreen Atari/sling-shot image on their screens and a caption in
Japanese and English: Boot-leg S.O.S.)
JUVENILE INTERPRETER (V.O.)

Will attempt emergency-landing on Trash Island coast.
Please, make note of the following: to my securitydetail/bodyguard-dog, Spots Kobayashi, if still living,
I leave all my worldly possessions. If Spots has
preceded me into the next life, I ask that everything,
including my own bones and Spots’ carcass, be burned in
a crematory furnace, with our ashes scattered to the
four-winds. It will not amount to much pollution in
this sad land. If I survive, ignore this message.
(grimly determined:)
I’ve gone to find my dog.
Editor-Hiroshi presses stop on his memo-recorder. Tracy has tears
in her eyes. She shouts:
TRACY
Young masters of Megasaki: unite!
Tracy holds up her own defiant placard: Nutmeg.
EXT. SHORE-LINE. DAY
The carcass of a beached tug-boat, cracked, crumbling, rotten,
and rusty, sits perched on the crest of a sludge-dune above a
stagnant tidal-canal.
INT. BEACHED TUG-BOAT. DAY
A ship’s galley, half-buried in slurry sand. Jupiter flicks the
cork-stopper out of a wooden cask hanging around his neck and
decants a generous dose of rich, amber liquid into a large dogbowl with his name printed on it.
JUPITER
Turpentine brandy. It cools the head and warms the dogbones.
Jupiter sits at the head of the assembled group. The visitors
wait respectfully as Jupiter re-plugs the stopper with his
tongue. They all drink together from the bowl. Oracle says
sagely, aside:
ORACLE
It may snow tonight.
BOSS
(extremely interested)
Really? Thank you very much. Wow.

ORACLE
(shrugs)
To whom it may concern.
Oracle drinks another sip. Boss whispers to King, awed:
BOSS
She sees the future.
King scoffs and motions across the room. Boss looks.
CUT TO:
A small, partially disassembled television-set branded Visions
Electronics Cathode 10” with a weather-report inprogress wired to
a decrepit current-generator. The newsanchor points at a drifting
cold-front.
KING
She understands T.V.
Boss frowns. Jupiter begins:
JUPITER
You seek a dog named Spots.
Rex nods. Atari produces the picture of Spots and shows it to
Jupiter and Oracle. Oracle says quietly:
ORACLE
Dog-Zero.
JUPITER
(nodding)
Dog-Zero.
Chief and Rex exchange a puzzled look. Jupiter begins a brief
lecture:
JUPITER
As you know, most of the animals on this island come
from human homes with domesticated back-grounds.
However, a small population of savage, aboriginal dogs
have been scavenging the Metro-politan Dumping-Grounds
for nearly a decade. The graffiti on this wall depicts
the story.
Jupiter stands in front of a graffiti-mural (in spray-paint,
magic-marker, and knife-scratch) on a cinder-block wall. A

sequence of images shows:
1. A map of Trash Island with an inset/blow-up of a dot at its
farthest-northern tip: a tiny island off the shore of the main
land-mass.
2. Numerous dogs with stitches and bandages on their heads and
bodies, coded hospital-bands around their necks and ankles, and
plastic tags on their ears, legs, and tails. Graffiti-text in
Japanese and English reads: Kobayashi Animal-Testing (Canine
Division).
3. An off-shore research-laboratory on stilts being hit by a
tidal-wave as the earth cracks open and a volcano erupts in the
back-ground. Desperate dogs drown and burn, but many scramble
away from their panicking scientist-captors.
Jupiter continues in voice-over:
JUPITER (V.O.)
They were born into captivity on the ends of the
fringes of the most distant reaches of the island. They
endured great suffering and cruelty at the hands of
their former masters. Finally, in the wake of an Act of
God, they escaped -- to a harsh and desperate freedom.
Jupiter laps-up another shot of the strong drink.
JUPITER
Some say they died away over the subsequent years,
starving and forgotten. Some say they swam to the
mainland, but this seems unlikely. (Too far to dogpaddle.)
(mysteriously)
Some say they’re still with us, in the Far-away
Cuticles, beyond the Middle Fingers.
(dramatic pause)
We know the animal you seek.
The five dogs look surprised and intrigued. Jupiter explains:
JUPITER
He has appeared in Oracle’s visions.
BRIEF FLASH-BACK:
A high-rise apartment over a city-park in the middle of the
night. Jupiter and Oracle sit on a plush carpet in front of a
large-screen television set branded Visions Electronics Vivid-

Color 26”. They are watching the broadcast of Spots in his dogcage on the podium at the Municipal Dome.
JUPITER (V.O.)
He was the first unfortunate pet to be exiled to Trash
Island.
Jupiter finishes the bowl of turpentine brandy and licks his
lips. He hypothesizes with quiet gravity:
JUPITER
A prophecy suggests itself: Spots (if he’s alive) may
very well be living, even at this moment, as a captive
prisoner abducted into the company of these wild,
savage dogs.
(sharply aside)
Oracle, what do you think?
Oracle has fallen asleep in front of the television set. (A
contestant on a game-show plays Whac-a-Mole with a giant, puffy
mallet. The audience screams, ecstatic.) Jupiter brushes this
annoyance aside and concludes:
JUPITER
Continue your journey. Have faith in your cause. Luck
and good fortune be unto you.
Jupiter turns and exits the room. Chief, Rex, King, Duke, and
Boss absorb all this new information. Atari, listening acutely,
nods and pretends to understand. Duke says discreetly, aside:
DUKE
You heard the rumor, right? About these aboriginal
dogs.
Chief, Rex, King, and Boss mumble and mutter simultaneously
again. (”Not really.” “I don’t think so.” “Remind us again.”
Etc.) Duke says bluntly:
DUKE
They’re cannibals.
The four dogs hesitate. Chief asks pointedly:
CHIEF
You’re telling me they’re going to want to eat us?
DUKE
(pause)

Well, they’re cannibals.
INT. SUSHI BAR. DAY
A grey-haired sushi-chef with a brush-cut and a head-band chops
and slices behind a lunch-counter. He butchers a flopping, pink
river-fish, sears it, and dots each piece with crystal-salt. He
assassinates a live, pink star-fish, dissects it, and tops each
tendril with a tiny fish-eye. He euthanizes a wriggling, pink
octopus-leg, slivers it, and paints each slice with glitterygreen wasabi -- with the exception of one, single serving, which
he finishes with a yellow wasabi. The sushi-chef packages the
order neatly in a bento-box, slips the bento-box into a wax-paper
sleeve, and drops the wax-paper-sleeved bento-box into a white
sack labeled:
For Delivery:
Professor Watanabe
(Hotel-Guest Under House-Arrest)
Toho Mountain Ryokan
The sushi-chef ties the sack with tight twine and places it on
the counter. He nods gravely to:
The yakuza-gangster in a delivery-boy uniform-disguise.
INT. TRADITIONAL INN. DAY
A hotel room with tatami flooring and paper-screen partitions.
Professor Watanabe, unshaven and weary, dressed in a kimono with
his hair wet and his sunglasses on, rapidly works his way morselby-morsel through the contents of the bento-box. He sips a beer.
He eats a bit of ginger. He stares down at:
INSERT:
The last piece.
Professor Watanabe hesitates. He frowns, suspicious. He takes a
miniscule taste of the yellow wasabi on the end of a chopstick.
He swallows and waits. He picks up the piece of sushi and studies
it at some length.
MONTAGE:
1. The crow’s-nest of the Tug-boat on the Dune in a whistling
snow-storm. A half-full trash-tram approaches on a low cable.
Atari and the five dogs jump onboard like hobos hopping a
freight-train. They look back at Jupiter and Oracle watching from

a broken window and disappear into the white-out.
2. The newsroom at Megasaki Senior High. Tracy, Editor-Hiroshi,
and the Daily-Manifesto staff sit glued to their television set,
watching in horror as live-feed footage shows Professor
Watanabe’s corpse being rolled on a gurney into the Megasaki City
Morgue.
3. The front-page of the morning-edition of the Daily-Manifesto.
Headline: Scientist Poisons Self! Boy-hunt Continues.
4. A trail of foot-prints in the crunchy frost over the abandoned
golf-course. A team of dog-catchers follows five sniffing robotdogs up the asphalt path and onto the fairway. Three rescuedrones circle above, humming.
5. Professor Watanabe’s laboratory. Furniture and equipment all
around the room: smashed, scattered, and demolished. Yellow-tape
stretched across the area reads: Condemned Facility. Posted signs
state: All Further Research Forbidden (by Order of the Mayoral
Office). Yoko-ono sits on the floor with her arms wrapped around
her body, rocking and muttering to herself as she stares into
space.
INSERT:
The laboratory wall-safe. Ten serum-vials inside lie shattered in
a thin puddle of the blue liquid.
EXT. TRASH-TRAM. DAY
Rex summarizes to Chief, King, Duke, Boss, and Atari as they
glide through the air:
REX
We’re approaching the end of Old Trash Island. To the east: the
Sapporo River and Megasaki City. To the west: the open-sea. To
the north: a long, rickety cause-way over a noxious sludge-marsh
leading to a radio-active land-fill polluted by toxic chemicalgarbage. That’s our destination.
Atari listens but shows no sign of comprehension. Chief, staring
down at the ground, appears to be ignoring the discussion
altogether. King, Duke, and Boss, however, seem inexplicably
gung-ho. They respond in unison:
KING
Got it.

DUKE
Perfect.
BOSS
Great.
The rear-section of the trash-tram detaches from the front with a
silent jolt, then rises-up out of the frame in a new direction.
Chief and Atari -- the occupants of that portion of the vehicle - look at each other, startled, before they disappear from view.
The front-section of the trash-tram stays its course (along with
the camera) as Rex, oblivious, continues his update:
REX
Get ready to jump. Atari, I’ll drag you overboard with
my teeth, since you can’t understand the plan. After
that, we’re back on foot. The next stage -Rex finally notices the absence of the absentees. He looks all
around, puzzled and alarmed.
REX
Where’d they go?
The rear-section of the trash-tram now re-enters the frame on a
parallel course in the deep back-ground a hundred feet away. Rex
says to himself, highly agitated:
REX
What are they doing over there? How’d this happen?
What’s going on with this contraption?
King, Duke, and Boss mutter, flummoxed. Rex shouts to Chief:
REX
If we get separated (which we are): rendez-vous at the
cause-way!
Pause. Chief, tiny in the distance, shouts back:
CHIEF
You’re not our leader!
Rex looks stupefied. He hesitates. He yells:
REX
What?

A profusion of criss-crossing cable-lines, mechanized
switchbacks, and automated traffic-regulators pass through the
frame, swinging, churning, and clunking. Chief, barely audible,
repeats:
CHIEF
You’re not our leader! We all are! Let’s take a vote!
Rex looks to the other dogs in disbelief. They shake their heads,
sympathetic. Rex, wildly exasperated, struggles to keep his
temper. He bellows:
REX
All in favor of my plan, which is to rendez-vous at the
cause-way -Rex and the other passengers of the front-section of the trashtram disappear into a tunnel on the side of a massive, steel
edifice labeled: Crushing, Compacting, and Incineration. (Smoke
puffs from an exhaust, and the entire structure shudders and
rattles like a behemoth jalopy.) Chief and Atari, two specks in
the rear-section, deep in the back-ground, continue on their way.
EXT. AMUSEMENT PARK. DAY
The last vestiges of a deserted amusement-park: a wooden pier
with a penny-arcade; a parachute-drop; a Ferris-wheel; a
crumbling, once-brightly colored colossus of a Shogun war-lord
below a dead-neon sign which reads: Kobayashi Park. Every surface
is blanketed in bright-green (moss, mold, lichen) and encrusted
with barnacles. Atari and Chief watch from their trash-tram as
the attractions slide-by fifty feet below.
The trash-tram stops suddenly. Its underside hinges-open, and the
two passengers (along with a load of grime, slime, and gunk)
hurtle-out toward the earth.
The camera booms down a great distance to an enormous, abandoned,
overflowing, steel dumpster. A wisp of dust emanates from the top
of the rubbish. A hatch at the base of the dumpster smashes open,
and Atari and Chief burst out, staggering. They brush themselves
off. Atari looks to Chief, disoriented. Chief is stoic.
CHIEF
Let’s go.
Chief begins to lead the way. Atari lingers, reluctant, and looks
up at:

A faux-ancient tower with a spiraling, fiberglass chute circling
around it. A sign painted on the structure reads: Pagoda-Slide!
Next to the boarded-up entrance there is another Shogun war-lord
(wooden, flat) holding up a sword labeled: You Must Be This Tall.
Atari studies the war-lord. He turns back to Chief, hopeful.
Chief shakes his head.
CHIEF
We made an emergency plan, even if we didn’t get to
vote and agree to it yet: rendez-vous at the cause-way
to the Far-away Cuticles, and go find your dog. Maybe
everybody else just got crushed, compacted, and
incinerated -- but we’re going to be there. Let’s go.
Atari hesitates. He goes over to the war-lord and measures
himself. He is slightly too short. He looks up at the PagodaSlide again and gestures in a cork-screw motion as he softly
describes his wishes.
CHIEF
No, you can’t ride the Pagoda-Slide. You’re below the
safety-limit, anyway. Let’s go.
Pause. Atari takes a small step toward the Pagoda-Slide entrance.
Chief warns him:
CHIEF
Don’t.
Atari takes a second step. Chief warns him again:
CHIEF
Repeat: don’t. I’m not your pet. I never liked you. I
don’t care about you. I won’t wait for you. I bite.
Atari karate-kicks the door open and clanks up the steps as he
ascends the interior of the Pagoda-Slide. Silence.
CHIEF
Good luck.
Chief turns and walks away. Off-screen: Atari’s yelling voice
increases in volume until he zips spiralling back into view and
tumbles off the end of the slide onto the ground. He stands up,
laughing hysterically, even desperately. He takes a deep breath.
He looks left. He looks right. He shouts for Chief in Japanese.
Long pause.

Atari sits down on a filthy stump. He looks left and right again.
He whistles the folk-tune. He begins to sing it quietly in
Japanese. A tear rolls down his cheek.
CUT TO:
Chief mutters to himself angrily as he walks alone through the
abandoned amusement park. He stops walking. He stares into space.
He looks back behind him.
CUT TO:
Atari singing. He pauses. He sighs. He stares down at the ground.
Off-screen, some distance away, a voice whistles faintly. Atari
looks up quickly. The whistling continues.
Atari listens keenly. Chief walks back into the frame. Atari
stands up, sniffling. He follows Chief past a wall of postedbills (faded wood-block prints of an old Kabuki play called The
Boy-Samurai), and they clack-out through a turnstile between
permanently closed ticket-booths.
EXT. WASTE-LAND. DAY
Atari and Chief sing/whistle the last verse as they make their
way across an open plain washed in contaminated waste. Atari
stops, picks up a thin section of discarded stiff-plastic hose,
and throws it like a stick. He looks to Chief. He smiles. Chief
says blankly:
CHIEF
Don’t ask me to fetch that stick.
Atari hesitates. He explains the concept in Japanese and chirps:
ATARI
Fetch-i!
Chief does not respond. Atari hesitates again. He repeats:
ATARI
Fetch-i!
CHIEF
(steely)
I’m telling you: I don’t fetch.
Atari hesitates a third time. He re-explains in explicit detail
with gestures and precise instructions. He says again, finally:

ATARI
Fetch-i!
CHIEF
(long pause)
I’m not doing this because you commanded me to. I’m
doing it -- because I feel sorry for you. You’re
lonely, and you look terrible. You’ve probably got DogFlu.
In fact: both Atari and Chief look as sick, weary, and bedraggled
as we have ever seen them. Chief walks calmly some distance over
to the piece of plastic hose, picks it up with his teeth, returns
to Atari, and drops it at his feet. Atari kneels down. He pets
Chief’s neck. He hugs him and says in English:
ATARI
Good-boy.
Chief melts. Atari continues to stroke his fur.
INSERT:
A slim, nylon case with the discreet monogram “S.K. (BodyguardDog)”. Atari’s fingers unzip a flap and flip it open. The case
contains a miniature bar of strong flea-soap, a small tail-comb,
a little dog-brush, a set of tiny coat-clippers, and a one-ounce
bottle labeled: Aromatic Fur Tonic.
CUT TO:
A soapy Chief soaking in a dissected Hokusai Lager beer-keg
filled to the brim with foamy water while Atari (stripped-down to
a metallic Speedo) lathers his coat and rinses his snout with a
plastic ladle.
CUT TO:
Chief, silhouetted against the white sun, sitting on a crumpled
Bulk-Ramen box with his front paws in the air as Atari dries him
with a pristine rag, then grooms, trims, and scalp-massages him.
CUT TO:
Chief, clean. A radical transformation has taken place: a black
dog polka-dotted in white is now a white dog polka-dotted in
black. Chief looks down at his paws and haunches, impressed,
slightly stunned, and extremely self-conscious. Atari eye-balls
Chief with a long, hard stare. He digs into his pocket.

INSERT:
A broken shaving-mirror jammed into a trash-heap. Atari holds up
his publicity wood-block-print of Spots in his dog-cage next to
the reflection of Chief in the mirror. They both study the
comparison at length. The two dogs look nearly identical.
Finally, Chief asks, uneasy:
CHIEF
Where’d you get that dog? He looks like me (with a pink
nose). I come from a nine-dog litter, but they drowned
the sisters. We’re not a rare breed: short-hairedOceanic-speckle-ear/sport-hound-mix. I’m getting
confused now. My belly feels funny.
Atari, intrigued, holds Chief’s face in his hands and studies his
eyes. Chief blinks. Atari opens a pouch on his trouser-leg and
takes out a little paper sack hand-labeled: “For Spots”. Inside,
there is a single dog-treat. Atari breaks it in two and returns
one half to the sack.
ATARI
Biscuit-o.
Atari attempts to feed the second half of the dog-treat to Chief.
Chief hesitates.
CHIEF
I can’t accept that. It’s for your dog.
Atari insists. Chief’s eyes mist over.
CHIEF
Don’t make me start crying again. I’ve never been
offered a Puppy-Snap in my life. I don’t even know what
they taste like. OK, I’ll try it.
Chief carefully takes the half dog-treat in his teeth and
crunches it up politely. He sighs.
CHIEF
Crunchy. Salty. Supposedly, it cleans your teeth.
(deeply moved)
This is my new favorite food.
Tears well-up in Chief’s eyes. He says quietly:
CHIEF
Thank you.

Dusk. Atari struggles as he and Chief climb a winding path up a
steep, craggy incline. Spindly, thorny, leaf-less trees bristle
in the cold breeze. Chief checks the footing ahead, then circles
back quickly and follows Atari, nudging and supporting him up to
the next rise. Atari pauses and pulls on a folded paper-sheaf
sticking out of a fallen garbage-sack.
INSERT:
The front page of a recent, late-edition Daily-Manifesto.
Headline: Mayor’s Ward Fights for Dogs (A Five-Part Article by
Foreign-exchange-student Tracy Walker). Below the fold: the
infra-green Atari/sling-shot image.
Atari and Chief stare at the newspaper.
EXT. HIGH PLATEAU. NIGHT
Atari sleeps flat on his back, exhausted, with his mouth open on
top of a sheet of plywood. His pillow is a milk-carton. Chief, on
look-out, stands over him. The black owl circles and lands nearby
on top of a safety-lamp. It hoots. Chief nods.
CHIEF
Cold up here tonight.
The black owl’s head rotates away. Chief looks down at the
sleeping boy. He whispers:
CHIEF
We’ll find him. Wherever he is (if he’s alive): we’ll
find your dog.
Chief steps away a few paces and carefully surveys the perimeter.
INSERT:
The diode-light on Atari’s earphone flickers green for an instant
with a scratch of faint, crackly static -- then goes silent/red
again. Atari startles, half-awake. He listens. He closes his eyes
again and resumes his sleep.
INT. HOST-FAMILY RESIDENCE. NIGHT
A teenage-girl’s bedroom in a high-rise apartment building. On
one wall: posters of heart-throbs, rock-bands, and horses. On the
other: a C.I.A./F.B.I.-type display of scraps, maps, snap-shots,
and other bits of assorted evidence all linked and interconnected
by criss-crossing strings and threads. Tracy stands with her arms

folded in front of her chest, studying the ephemera. She speaks
directly to the suspects.
INSERT:
A wood-block-print of Mayor Kobayashi with the military-officer,
the bespectacled-executive, the technology-tycooness, the yakuzagangster, and Major-Domo. Notes read: corporate-spy, warcriminal, robotics-profiteer, health-code violator, paidassassin.
TRACY
Mayor Kobayashi, elected leader of Megasaki City. For
150 years, you and your ancestors, known as the
Kobayashi Dynasty, a procession of dog-hating thugs,
stooges, felons, and their criminal underlings, have
betrayed, deceived, and swindled the citizens of Uni
Prefecture. You make me so mad!
INSERT:
A wood-block-print of Professor Watanabe. Clippings illustrate:
his early discoveries, his appointment to the Ministry of
Science, his “suicide”.
TRACY
Professor Watanabe, Minister of Science, deceased. The
wasabi in your blood showed poison-levels in excess of
ten times the maximum dosage required to stop the heart
of a whale. Why’d you do it?
INSERT:
Wood-block-prints of Atari: in his hospital bed, with Spots and
the mayor, firing his sling-shot.
TRACY
Atari Kobayashi, adopted ward to the mayoral-household.
You heroically hijacked a Junior Turbo-Prop XJ750 and There is a knock on the door. Tracy frowns and opens it. A bentover old woman in a kimono appears with a cup of warm milk on a
tray. She speaks to Tracy in raspy Japanese. Tracy takes the
drink and answers, bowing, exceedingly cheery, chirpy, and
deferential. The old woman gives her a few additional
instructions and bits of advice, then says good-night, turns off
the lights, and closes the door. Tracy returns to her collage

with a flash-light.
CUT TO:
Tracy in tight close-up. She stares with deep feeling at her
Atari-shrine on the wall.
TRACY
Atari. You heroically, as I was saying, stole the
little airplane, as you know, because of your dog, I
mean -(hesitates)
I lost my train of thought.
Tracy sighs. She clicks off the flash-light, then shouts:
TRACY
Dammit! I’ve got a crush on you.
EXT. CAUSE-WAY. DAY
A narrow, rickety, steel-frame foot-bridge a half-mile long over
a vast, shallow marsh littered with refuse. Chief and Atari stand
waiting in front of a chained-shut steel gate in between the
bridge-entrance and the foot of a towering trash-cliff. (Heard
but not yet seen: rushing water rumbles through a nearby
channel.)
A sign above the bridge-entrance creaks as it swings slightly on
rusted hooks. It reads:
Cause-Way
To the Far-away Cuticles
The camera booms down to an old, filthy, dented metallic doorframe which resembles an airport-security screening-unit and is
labeled: Check-Point/Scanning. An electrical-wire at the base
zaps periodically, short-circuiting.
INSERTS:
A sea-newt crawling on a piece of decomposing Styrofoam. A
cluster of mosquitoes buzzing around a sludge-filled plastic
baggie. A tiny, oily, black mud-frog which croaks and ribbits.
Atari whistles the folk-tune. Chief hums along. Atari absently
scratches behind Chief’s ears. Chief looks around uncertainly.
Atari jams his hands into his pockets. Silence.
A faint clank echoes. Atari and Chief both turn suddenly to look

toward the trash-cliff above/behind them. A grinding hum
reverberating out of a tunnel-exit near the top of the high ridge
grows louder and louder. Chief and Atari stare intently. Finally:
a rattling trash-tram bursts-out into view and passes steadily
overhead. Rex, King, Duke, and Boss -- severely singed, partially
shorn, slightly mangled, coats puffing with smoke and dust -peer wearily and warily over the rim of the rattling vehicle.
Chief and Atari brighten. Chief yells:
CHIEF
Rex! King! Duke! Boss! You made it!
The battered tram-passengers look down at Chief and Atari. Chief
and Atari walk apace below the moving trash-tram as they continue
their conversation. Rex frowns. He barks:
REX
What happened to you?
CHIEF
(hesitates)
I took a bath.
REX
(pause)
He’s got soap?
CHIEF
(sheepish)
A little.
Chief and Atari slip under and over the steel gate and cross onto
the footbridge. Rex says, judgemental:
REX
You’re too fluffy.
CHIEF
(guilty/proud)
We played fetch.
REX
(in disbelief)
And you brought it back to him?
Chief shrugs. He nods. Rex clarifies:
REX

With a stick?
CHIEF
(specifically)
With a hunk of rubber radiator-tubing.
(warmly)
He’s a good boy.
REX
(frustrated)
Don’t tell me that! I’m the one that tried to make you
be loyal to him, in the first place. You’re
disobedient! You hate masters! You’re a stray!
As Chief and Atari hurry, distracted, through the decrepit
screening-unit, it beeps.
INSERT:
A small control-board with a miniature monitor-display attached
to the side of the security door-frame. Text on a panel reads:
Advanced Tooth-and-Tail Recognition Software. It blinks on.
Images of Atari and Chief with accompanying descriptive data
flicker across the screen for a brief moment before the entire
system fritzes with a jolt and powers-off.
Chief and Atari continue below and parallel to the trash-tram as
it proceeds above the bridge. Up ahead, in the middle of the
foot-bridge, at the center of the expansive marsh, there is a
confusing aerial-junction where the tram-cable splits into
multiple directions. Chief yells:
CHIEF
Stop! This is the rendez-vous. Where’s that trash-tram
taking you?
REX
(angry)
How should we know? You think we booked this ride
through a travel agent? We were fighting for our lives
in a high-velocity trash-processor while you were
getting scrubbed and brushed. We’re traumatized!
Chief looks to Atari. Atari shouts up at the trash-tram sharply
in Japanese. Chief nods and translates:
CHIEF
Jump!

REX
(puzzled)
Where?
CHIEF
(forcefully)
Here!
REX
(anxious)
When?
CHIEF
(urgently)
Now!
REX
(baffled)
Why?
CHIEF
(utterly beside himself)
What?
REX
(furious)
Let’s take a vote. All in favor -The trash-tram slams to a halt at the junction with a powerful,
echoing bang.
INSERTS:
The sea-newt wiggles away. The mosquitoes disappear. The frog
hops off and sinks into the bubbling marsh.
Chief and Atari now stand at the edge of a wide gap before an
open section of the center of the cause-way (retracted like a
sliding draw-bridge). A cement drain-channel runs perpendicular
across the marsh fifteen-feet below the gap. Violently churning
rapids whoosh through it.
Chief and Atari, open-mouthed, gawk up at Rex, King, Duke, and
Boss hanging over the chasm above the gap in the foot-bridge. The
trash-tram squeaks, swaying on its cable. Rex squints. He says
eerily:
REX
Who’s that?

Chief and Atari turn around suddenly to look back behind them at
the trash-cliff. Ten dog silhouettes are watching them, immobile,
spread-out across the top of the high-ridge. Chief sniffs the air
and says curiously:
CHIEF
I can’t smell them.
CUT TO:
The security-device images of Atari and Chief now on a large
screen at the M.T.F. Dog-Catchers Division control-tower. An
alert blinks in red below the duo: Positive-Match. Technicians
criss-cross excitedly around the room, chattering on radioreceivers and rapidly punching-in further instructions.
On the Plexiglas table-top map of Trash Island: surrounding
sectors go dark, high-lighting the cause-way zone and pinpointing
Atari and the Hero Pack’s immediate location. A group of
technicians slurp noodles quickly and messily. One of them yells
in Japanese on a red telephone.
CUT TO:
Dusk, the cause-way. A roaring rescue-drone descends out of the
sky toward Rex, King, Boss, and Duke, who cower in the stalled
trash-tram. Atari and Chief look-up at them from the foot-bridge.
In the marsh below, two amphibious, six-wheeled landing-craft
approach from either side of the cause-way. Atari and Chief hear
a loud crashing noise and whirl-around to see:
The metal gate at the Security/Check-Point collapsing flat as the
platoon of robot-dogs advances in formation onto the bridge.
Atari and Chief glare, furious.
The trash-tram’s bomb-bay doors begin to grind open -- then stop
suddenly. The rotary mechanism repeats this unsuccessful action
over and over like a broken record. Rex, King, Boss, and Duke,
alarmed, restlessly squirm and wriggle. A warning lamp on the
side of the trash-tram activates. It reads: Jam. There is a
sudden bang and a large puff of black smoke. A small fire starts
on the underside of the vehicle.
A rattling basket-seat lowers by chain from the hovering rescuedrone carrying a dog-catcher with an extra-long, radio-active
cattle-prod. Atari’s earphone crackles with static:
SPOTS (O.S.)

Master -- Master -- Atari!
Atari’s eyes light-up. He chatters in Japanese, darting looks in
every direction. The diode-light on his earphone flickers back
from red to green to red. Atari shouts with his finger on his
earphone:
ATARI
Spots-u? Spots-u? Spots-u?
CUT TO:
The far opposite end of the foot-bridge: two white dog-legs jolt
into the foreground on top of a pile of rubble. Atari and Chief
stare at the distant-dog in silhouette against a white mist,
beyond the gap, a hundred meters away. Chief sniffs the air and
says quietly:
CHIEF
That dog’s real.
As the mist lifts and thins: another thirty dogs are faintly
revealed behind the first one. Atari and Chief squint and blink,
unsure of what they are seeing.
CUT TO:
A long-lens shot of the distant-dog (with the company at his
flanks): he continues his approach at a full-speed sprint.
TITLE:
Part Three:
“The Secret Tooth”
(5 Months and 3 Weeks Earlier)
EXT. JUNK-YARD. DAY
Spots’ battered dog-cage, exactly where it originally fell. Spots
remains trapped inside. Several other dogs -- though themselves
free to roam -- loiter, chatting with the imprisoned animal. (A
number of other dog-cages, all empty, with open cage-doors,
litter the area.)
OTHER DOG #1
What’s that thing in your ear for? Are you hard of
hearing?
SPOTS
You can’t be. Bodyguard-dogs have to have 20/30-

Auditory just to be certified. No, the ear-piece is how
I receive my commands and instructions and so on.
Obviously, I’m privy to certain sensitive information
due to my position in the mayoral-household at Brick
Mansion.
OTHER DOG #1
(hesitates)
You mean, is somebody talking to you right now?
SPOTS
(hesitates)
Well, the range is only about 75 feet or so, I guess,
so I haven’t heard anything in some time. The battery’s
probably dead, anyway.
OTHER DOG #2
(smart-aleck)
Why you still keep it in your ear, then?
SPOTS
(shrugs)
I can’t reach it.
OTHER DOG #3
(wise-acre)
How much money you think the mayor makes?
SPOTS
I can’t tell you that. That’s highly confidential.
Anyway, I’m not the mayor’s accountant’s dog. That’s
Butterscotch, and she got crushed in a glass compactor
the day before yesterday. No, my duties focus entirely
on the protection of the mayor’s ward, Atari. I’m not
supposed to be his friend, but I love him very much,
but that’s a private matter. The only reason I even
mention it is because we’re all going to die out here,
and I’ll never get to see him again.
Spots bows his head, devastated, and tries to hold-in several
loud sobs. The other dogs look at each other, depressed,
sympathetic, slightly embarrassed.
OTHER DOG #1
That’s a tough break. Well, good luck to you. Watch out
for the cannibal-dogs.
The other dogs begin to wander away. Spots hesitates. He says

sharply:
SPOTS
Hm?
Other Dog #1 pauses and looks back to Spots. He repeats:
OTHER DOG #1
Hm?
Spots stares. He squints and leans forward.
SPOTS
What?
Other Dog #1 cocks his head. He echoes Spots’:
OTHER DOG #1
What?
Spots frowns. He says slowly:
SPOTS
Watch out for the -Other Dog #1 nods. He follows suit:
OTHER DOG #1
-- cannibal-dogs? Dogs that eat dogs.
SPOTS
Start over and repeat again.
OTHER DOG #1
(dismissive)
You know what? Don’t even worry about that. I just
heard there might be some wild, aboriginal cannibaldogs in the area, you know -- but you’re trapped in a
cage with an extra-security lock on it. You’re probably
safer than anybody. Except from thirst and starvation.
Other Dog #1 lingers for a beat, then makes his exit. Spots sits,
silent and perturbed.
CUT TO:
Midnight. Spots, sleeping curled on the floor of his dog-cage,
snaps one eye open.
A huge, albeit half-starved, wolf-dog sits directly in front of

him, staring coolly. Half the wolf-dog’s head has been shaved
clean. He has stitches and scars all along the bald side. He has
a hospital-band around his neck and a plastic clip on his ear. A
stencilled tag on his collar reads: Gondo.
Spots slowly sits up.
Six more dogs descend from four different directions at once and
join the wolf-dog. They are all covered with scars and stitches,
patches and splints. They circle Spots’ cage. Silence. Spots says
quietly:
SPOTS
It’s got an extra-security-lock on it. You’ll never get
it open.
INSERT:
The door-latching system. Embossed on the casing of the
mechanism: Kobayashi Lock and Bolt/Japan. A red sticker below
reads: Guaranteed Pick-Proof.
MONTAGE:
The seven strangers carry the caged-Spots in the moon-light
across the landscape in the manner of either a slain-deer on a
spit or, perhaps, a royal litter. They cross the Middle Fingers:
the shell-pocked tide-pool, the high-rail track past the ore and
gravel mounds, the skinny path past the tower-silos, the rim of
the crater past the ash-dusted foundry, the abandoned golfcourse.
EXT. TESTING FACILITY. DAY
The off-shore structure described earlier by Jupiter: Kobayashi
Animal-Testing Laboratory (Canine Division).
INSIDE:
The subterranean remains of the shell of a former researchlaboratory. Cement walls. Bathroom-tile floors. Glass-less
window-frames. In the back-ground: a bank of corroded turbines
spin, crooked and creaky, under an on-going deluge delivered by a
battery of pipes straight from the open sea. Spots, still in his
dog-cage, looks out at a community of thirty scarred, stitched,
patched, splinted, hospital-banded, unfamiliar dogs of various
breeds and shapes. The huge wolf-dog, Gondo, sits at the center
of the watching group. Long pause.

SPOTS
Are you going to eat me now?
GONDO
(frowns)
What’d you say?
SPOTS
(icy)
Are you going to eat me now? I heard you were cannibaldogs. Be notified: I’ll be compelled to defend myself
with all means at my disposal.
Spots grits his teeth. The camera pushes in toward his mouth.
INSERT:
One of Spots’ teeth. On very close inspection, it appears to be
strangely rifled with winding spiral grooves and labeled with
tiny Japanese text.
Gondo laughs to himself, angry and deeply hurt. He shakes his
head. His companions roll their eyes, grumbling. Gondo growls:
GONDO
Who told you that dirty lie? We resorted to cannibalism
on one occasion, many months ago, as a desperate
survival instinct. We ate one single dog. His name was
Fuzzball, and he was our pack-leader, and he was
already in a coma from starvation, so we put him out
his misery and -(his voice cracks)
-- consumed him. We would’ve dropped dead in a week or
less without that nourishment. We were dying. Do you
judge us for that? Shame on you! We only brought you
here in the first place to help you. We’ve got a Master
Pass-Key!
Gondo motions to a wall lined with empty, pick-proof dog-cages
stacked six-high and thirty-wide. A wizened, old dog with a
prosthetic-leg limps toward Spots with a small, orange locker-key
in his teeth. He pulls a safety-catch before unlocking the bolt.
The door pops ajar. The entire company of dogs, disgusted, then
wanders away in different directions, returning to the chores and
tasks of their survival.
Spots, alone, noses open the door and emerges from his dog-cage.
He looks sheepish. An off-screen voice echoes:

PEPPERMINT (V.O.)
Fuzzball was his best friend.
Spots looks up to a landing at the top of a steep, metal
staircase. A willowy, silver-haired racing-hound with toothpick
legs stares down at him through beautiful, blood-shot eyes. She
is Peppermint (as stated on her hospital-band collar). Spots
clears his throat.
SPOTS
Oh, dear. I think I offended him. I had no idea.
Peppermint descends toward Spots. As she comes close to him and
sits, Spots sees that her head and neck are implanted with
tarnished electrodes and tattooed with faded surgical markings.
The ends of a few copper-wires, still attached to her skin, fray
from their tiny sockets. Spots studies her condition and asks
gently:
SPOTS
What is this place? How long’ve you been here? I can
see you’ve been mistreated.
Peppermint starts to answer but cannot quite find the words.
Tears stream down her cheeks. Spots immediately licks them away.
SPOTS
My name is Spots. Spots Kobayashi. How can I be of
service to you?
CUT TO:
A wide, wide, high-angle shot of Spots and Peppermint: two tiny,
seated figures facing each other on the floor of the cavernous
testing-facility.
RETURN TO:
The cause-way, present-minute, night. White-hot prison-lamps
illuminate the foot-bridge, and spot-lights scan and circle from
the rescue-drone above and the landing-craft below. Rex, King,
Duke, and Boss spit and blow on the increasing fire up in the
dangling trash-tram.
On the bridge: the robot-dogs surround Atari and Chief, preparing
to pounce. Dog-catchers riding the mechanical ladders ascend into
view, shining powerful flash-lights and wielding electronic
billy-clubs. The dog-catcher in the basket-seat comes to a stop
with a clanging jolt and blasts-down his own beam.

Chief and Atari balance on a little ledge, a square of crenelated
cement jutting out over the gap in the foot-bridge over the
rapid-flow cement-channel that cuts through the marsh below.
Atari sling-shots a lug-nut at the dog-catcher in the basketseat. His flash-light explodes.
CUT TO:
Another new angle: the camera is strapped to the back of the
sprinting distant-dog as he approaches the gap. A diode-light on
his earphone flickers green/red. (Obviously, he is Spots.) He
shouts:
SPOTS
Can you hear me? Can you hear me? Can you hear me,
Master Atari?
INSERT:
Atari’s diode-light: green.
CUT TO:
Atari’s eyes. They light up. He shouts again:
ATARI
Spots-u?
The camera races at top-speed with the running Spots with his
thirty followers (the aboriginal dogs) behind him. He yells as he
approaches the gap:
SPOTS
You’re not safe here! You shouldn’t have come for me! I
can’t protect you efficiently under these conditions!
CUT TO:
The front-and-center robot-dog: retracted bayonets emerge, normal
canine-teeth switch to long blades, fighting-screens close over
glowing eye-balls. It roars.
INT. CONTROL-TOWER. DAY
A pair of elevator doors slide open, and Mayor Kobayashi and
Major-Domo stride into the mission-control room. Voices fall
silent. The mayor and his aide watch the live-feed intently as it
displays: the robot-dog’s infra-green P.O.V. of Atari and Chief
on the ledge of the foot-bridge. The mayor squints and leans

toward the screen. The image zooms-in on a second live-feed: of
Spots rapidly approaching from the other direction. Major-Domo
mutters, uncertain but surprised:
MAJOR-DOMO
Spots-u!
CUT TO:
Atari and Chief. Spots’ voice, loud and clear, blasts from
Atari’s earphone:
SPOTS (O.S.)
Here I come.
Atari and Chief spin around to look behind them. Spots sails
through the air spectacularly across the gap and into the camera.
Atari and Chief watch, wide-eyed, as Spots flies cleanly between
them and lands skidding at the center of the ambush.
Spots immediately digs his tongue around inside his mouth,
straining the muscles of his jaw.
INSERT:
Spots extends a tooth out on the tip of his tongue, then spits it
like a pellet-gun.
The tooth pegs into the front-and-center robot-dog and explodes
with surprising force and violence (given its extreme
littleness), instantly killing the foe. The dog-catchers on their
shaking ladders shield their eyes and duck from flying shrapnel.
One falls off into the marsh. Spots shouts furiously:
SPOTS
Sic-’em!
On cue: the thirty aboriginal dogs sail through the air over the
gap and flood onto Chief and Atari’s side of the bridge,
immediately swirling around the remaining robot-dogs, snapping
and growling, dodging and jumping, total chaos. Spots nods a curt
hello to Chief, then shouts to Atari:
SPOTS
Follow me!
First: Atari sling-shots one of the remaining robot-dogs, popping
out an eye-ball light-bulb. Next: Spots and Chief flank Atari on
the edge of the ledge, and all three look down past the camera

into the gap. Atari steels himself and grabs hold of both dogs’
collars. Third: Atari, Chief, and Spots leap together into the
rushing water-channel. They are instantly whisked away downstream. Finally: the thirty aboriginal dogs dive-in after them,
leaving the confused robot-dogs alone on the bridge. One of them
(now blind in one eye) staggers to the edge of the gap.
The rescue-drone bobbles crookedly above in the sky, flashing its
spot-light down on: Rex, King, Duke, and Boss, open-mouthed,
huddled in the corner of the trash-tram, now almost entirely
consumed in flames. Rex shouts:
REX
All in favor of kicking Chief out of the pack and never
speaking to him again, say “Aye”!
The bomb-bay doors open suddenly, and the four dogs fall (with
burning trash), screaming in terror, into the canal below.
EXT. CEMENT CONDUIT. NIGHT
As Atari, Chief, and Spots course down the rumbling man-made
water-way, halogen spot-bulbs periodically shoot-by along the
upper-lip of the water-channel and submarine flood-lamps strobe
and glow, intermittent, below. Chief and Spots keep Atari afloat,
splashing and paddling, as they shout their conversation:
CHIEF
How’d you do that?
SPOTS
Secret tooth! Military issue! Technically, I could do
it thirty-seven more times, but I wouldn’t be able to
chew my meat!
CHIEF
I assume you’re Spots! We’ve been looking for you.
Spots looks to Atari. Atari, highly emotional, speaks to his
bodyguard-dog in Japanese. Spots responds with deep feeling as
they zip along:
SPOTS
Master Atari-san, I swore an oath when I assumed the
responsibilities of official bodyguard-dog to the
mayoral-household! I could never be persuaded to break
that vow for any reason whatsoever! I’ll always be
loyal to you as my only and unconditional master! But

circumstances have radically changed for me and all the
pets of Megasaki City! I have new obligations which I
never anticipated! I’ve become the leader of a tribe of
outcasts who depend on me for their survival -- and I’m
going to be a father! With deepest sadness and
humility: I must ask you to relieve me of the duties of
my position, effective immediately!
Atari frowns with tears in eyes. Chief growls:
CHIEF
You son of a bitch. If we don’t drown, I’m going to
strangle you myself. I don’t care how many exploding
teeth you try to spit-out at me. Do you have any idea
what the little pilot just went through to try to
rescue you? He’s still got part of a broken propellorclutch sticking out of the side of his head! How dare
you?
SPOTS
(long pause)
You’re a stray.
CHIEF
So what?
SPOTS
What’s your name?
CHIEF
Who cares?
SPOTS
You’re from Central Megasaki. I can tell by the accent.
You’re a short-haired-Oceanic-speckle-ear/sport-houndmix. You were born in a storm-sewer on Bamboo-shoot
Holiday six years ago today. Do you know me?
Chief swallows, disconcerted. Spots says quietly:
SPOTS
I’m your older brother by five minutes. It’s been a
long time, Chief.
CHIEF
(voice cracking)
Was I the runt?
SPOTS

(respectfully)
Not anymore.
The cement channel comes to a sudden end and launches the three
of them over a low waterfall which cascades directly into a
churning whirlpool. They are instantly sucked underwater, gasping
and flailing, and disappear from view. A bleached and faded
warning stenciled on the cinder-block wall above the water-line
reads: Test-Lab Storm-Duct.
INT. SOUND-STAGE. NIGHT
Per usual, the reporter reports/the interpreter interprets:
INTERPRETER (V.O.)
Security-camera footage confirms initial reports of the
deaths of mayoral-ward Atari Kobayashi and his five
dog-abductors this afternoon in a sluice-channel at the
threshold of the Far-away Cuticles. A statement from
Major-Domo, live at Brick Mansion:
INSERT:
A television monitor in the studio. Major-Domo, in close-up on
the steps of the mayoral residence, announces:
INTERPRETER (V.O.)
The life of a promising young orphan has been cut short
before its prime. This is a distant-uncle’s worst
nightmare. Mayor Kobayashi asks for your prayers, your
condolences -- and your support for the diligent men
and women of the Municipal Task Force Dog-Catchers
Division: we salute you for your bravery and your
ongoing commitment to the continuing punishment of all
bad-dogs.
INT. TESTING FACILITY. NIGHT
The off-shore research-laboratory. A little phalanx of aboriginal
dogs follow Spots as he leads Atari and the Hero Pack (all still
wet from the storm-duct) on a tour past: the wall of dog-cages;
an operating room in disarray behind a broken window; and rows of
plastic pillories dangling with crumbling rubber tubes. The other
dogs rest in nooks and nests in the background.
SPOTS
Originally (before the volcano erupted and an
earthquake triggered the tsunami which obliterated the

facility), there were over 250 incarcerated animals
here on the premises being experimented on against
their will. If you look closely, you may notice some of
these dogs still bear scars and markings from the
research and abuse. Actually, it’s pretty obvious.
A dog staring out to sea through a door-less doorway turns to
face them. Along with the typical scars and stitches, it has: an
eye-patch, dentures, and a trumpet-like artificial left ear. Up
on the mezzanine, Peppermint lifts her head, sleepy. Spots smiles
at her, affectionate but worried.
SPOTS
This is my mate, Peppermint. She’s pregnant with our
first litter.
Spots whispers into Peppermint’s ear. She smiles wanly and nods
to the new-comers. Spots says, aside, as they continue toward the
center of the facility:
SPOTS
She was due a week ago.
(resuming the tour)
Anyway, the survivors of the disaster learned to
cultivate -Spots stops short and gasps slightly. Atari has taken-out the
remaining half of the “For Spots” dog-treat. The entire community
of dogs stares at it, transfixed. He carefully breaks it into
numerous tiny fragments. As he feeds the gathered animals, dogby-dog, he recites, priest-like:
ATARI
Biscuit-o. Biscuit-o. Biscuit-o.
Spots’ lip quivers. His voice cracks as he says to Chief:
SPOTS
Puppy-Snaps. I hear they don’t even make them anymore.
Chief nods sadly. Large text painted across the wall reads:
Kobayashi Animal-Testing Laboratory (Canine Division). Below it:
A Subsidiary of Kobayashi Pharmaceutical. Duke says
confidentially to Rex, King, and Boss:
DUKE
You heard the rumor, right? About Kobayashi
Pharmaceutical.

Rex, King, and Boss mumble and mutter simultaneously again.
(”What rumor?” “I never heard it.” “Kobayashi Pharmaceutical?”
Etc.) Duke says shockingly:
DUKE
They invented Dog-Flu.
Rex, King, and Boss, horrified at the possibility of such
insidiousness, are briefly speechless. Finally, Boss asks:
BOSS
Where do you get all these rumors? I mean, who tells
them to you?
DUKE
(shrugs)
Anybody. Dogs talk, and I listen. Always have. I love
gossip.
A loud commotion across the building attracts everyone’s
attention. Gondo approaches quickly and announces:
GONDO
Spots! The black owl has a message.
CUT TO:
The black owl perched on the railing of a balcony above the
entrance to the facility. It breathes heavily. Atari, Chief,
Spots, Rex, King, Duke, Boss, and Gondo circle around it. They
listen acutely as the bird hoots to the assembled dogs. Spots
translates:
SPOTS
He’s come from all the way across the island.
(to a nearby teenaged-dog)
Get him a cup of sewer-water, Chico.
The black owl hoots some more. Spots nods.
SPOTS
We understand.
(to the Hero Pack)
He has news from the Metropolitan Dumping-Grounds.
The other dogs murmur, worried and intrigued. Spots says sharply:
SPOTS
Quiet, please!

(back to the black owl)
We’re listening, owl. Tell us your message.
FLASH-BACK:
Jupiter, now-incarcerated in the dog-prison-camp, speaks through
a chain-link fence with Oracle, Nutmeg, and hundreds of other
Trash Island dogs crowded behind him. Powerful prison-beams cast
zig-zag shadows against the stormy night-sky. White-neon uplights eyes and snouts. The black owl listens from an iron post.
JUPITER
He’s going to poison us. Re-Election Night: at the moment Mayor
Kobayashi is re-inaugurated, he’ll give the order, and the
extermination-process will begin. (Oracle saw the plan in her
visions.)
FLASH-BACK WITHIN FLASH-BACK:
A portable, black-and-white television set branded Visions
Electronics Closed-Circuit 14” sits on a folding table in the
metal control-shed at the dog-camp. A crew of dog-catchers watch
as, on-screen, Mayor Kobayashi campaigns:
INTERPRETER (V.O.)
If the voters choose me again, on Re-Election Night, I
promise: a final and permanent end to the Canine
Saturation-crisis.
Oracle, horrified, stares-in from the window of the shed. She
looks behind her, around the dog-prison-camp, where more dogcatchers hammer and tinker as they install pipes and sprinklerjets around the perimeter of the camp -- all connected to a
similar but enormously large tank labeled: wasabi-gas.
JUPITER (V.O.)
Every pet in the Trash Island Camp will die. It may be
too late, already; but, if the black owl reaches you
with this message in time:
CUT TO:
Jupiter and the black owl at the wire-mesh fence. Jupiter
concludes quietly:
JUPITER
Go to Megasaki City. Find our masters. Appeal to the
people. Stop the mayor.

(pleading)
Save us.
RETURN TO:
The present. Dawn. The black owl leans down and drinks from a
sardine-tin of murky water. Atari, Chief, and Spots look out
across the river at Megasaki City. Atari speaks with fierce
determination (in Japanese). Spots interprets, announcing to the
group-at-large:
SPOTS
We’ll cross the river tonight. Begin preparations
immediately.
Dogs everywhere burst into sudden, anxious activity. Chief goes
back to the black owl. He says, pained but defiant:
CHIEF
You’ll meet a bitch named Nutmeg. Tell her Chief says:
I’ll see you in Megasaki.
The black owl hoots, stretches its wings, and floats up into the
air.
INSERT:
A wood-block-print of Atari wreathed in flower petals. Captions
above and below read:
Megasaki Senior High Drama Club
Performance Tonight!
In Memory of Atari Kobayashi,
Deceased Ward to the Mayoral-Household,
R.I.P.
INT. MEGASAKI SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL. DAY
A theatre auditorium. On-stage: a student Kabuki troupe in
elaborate make-up and costumes, a choir composed of three young
sumo wrestler bass-singers and an old music-teacher tenor, the
three shirtless barrel-drummers, and a junior-high boy-performer
dressed as a medieval warrior. A wood-block-printed back-drop
portrays a sea of angry stray-dogs. The actors dance and mime as
the choir sings and whistles in Japanese.
MONTAGE:
Atari draws a highly complicated sea-vessel blue-print in the

sand with a chopstick. Spots and the Hero Pack then work with him
roping, stitching, folding, and molding a construction out of
discarded detergent bottles, patched-up inner-tubes, plastic
recycling-crates, and scraps of cardboard, vinyl, and linoleum.
The result: a reasonably well-formed, make-shift raft with a
small, lean-to cabin on-deck. (Other dogs work on smaller rafts
in the back-ground.)
CUT TO:
The stage, mid-performance. The junior-high warrior poses
flamboyantly as he swings a samurai sword with precise,
impossibly quick movements. As he assaults an actor playing an
evil samurai, the evil samurai is revealed to be two actors (one
wearing a black body-suit with his painted face exposed, one
wearing a black hood over his face with his body in full-costume
exposed) who separate with a flourish as the boy “beheads” him.
CUT TO:
A night-crossing on the newly built raft. Spots, on watch, rides
at the prow of the ship like Washington Crossing the Delaware.
Chief steers from the rear with a snow-shovel tiller. Rex, King,
and Duke ride inside the lean-to cabin with Peppermint. Boss
sleeps outside. On the roof of the cabin: Atari lies on his
stomach writing briskly with a quill on a roll of paper-towels by
the light of his torch-light. An armada of smaller rafts follows
in the wake of the large one. Passengers: the rest of the
community of aboriginal dogs.
GRAPHIC:
The wood-block-print sea-chart of the Sapporo River (seen earlier
during Spots’ deportation) which maps a course back from Trash
Island across to Megasaki City. (A barrel-drum-solo interlude
plays over this image.)
CUT TO:
The end of the performance. The cast and choir take their bows.
In the audience: freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and seniors watch
and listen. Tracy sits with Editor-Hiroshi and the DailyManifesto staff. Her face is covered with bitter tears.
EXT. FLAG-SHIP RAFT. NIGHT
Atari has taken the tiller and stands at the stern of the vessel
next to Chief. Spots emerges from inside. He says gravely to

Chief:
SPOTS
Peppermint’s in labor.
Chief looks concerned. Spots sits-down in front of Atari. His
posture is formal and erect. He says to Chief, reluctant but
determined, with a lump in his throat:
SPOTS
Come sit beside me.
Chief hesitates. He looks to Atari. He sits down next to Spots.
Tears well-up in Spots’ eyes. Atari crouches in front of him and
Chief. He puts one hand on each dog’s head.
SPOTS
Master Atari, are you willing to accept my brother
Chief as new bodyguard-dog in personal service to you,
former ward to the mayoral-household?
Atari smiles sadly. He nods and says a few brief words in
Japanese. Spots turns to Chief.
SPOTS
Chief, are you willing to accept Atari as your direct
master, to serve and protect his safety and welfare
with all courage, loyalty, and friendship?
Chief nods, as well. He says quietly:
CHIEF
I can do that.
Spots nods to Atari and lowers his head. Atari gently removes the
earphone from Spots’ ear and installs it into Chief’s. Chief and
Atari stand beside him as he takes the tiller again and begins to
sing the folk-tune in Japanese. The dogs whistle the harmony.
CUT TO:
The interior of the lean-to cabin. Peppermint has given birth to
six puppies. Spots nuzzles her neck. Rex, King, Duke, and Boss
crowd around, mesmerized. Atari, on his knees, picks up one of
the new-born dogs and looks into its eyes. The carefully folded
paper-towel document sticks out from his breast pocket. Chief is
now at the tiller, solitary, still whistling -- in unison with
all the other dogs on every raft in their little armada. Up
ahead, the lights of Megasaki sparkle in the misty darkness.

INT. SAKE-BAR. NIGHT
An intimate, ten-seat saloon decorated in the style of a
scientific laboratory. White walls, glass counter, fluorescent
lights, a sign which reads: Laboratory Bar. A bartender in a labkimono stands propped in the foreground flipping through a backissue of a science journal with a picture of Neptune on its
cover.
Yoko-ono (in her own, disheveled lab-kimono) sits slumped over
the bar at the far end of the narrow room surrounded by fourteen
empty miniature sake bottles. Her hair is a rat’s nest. Her makeup is smudged and runny. Her eye-lids are half-shut. Her hand
trembles as she throws-back the contents of a lotus-flower shotglass and slaps it down on the bar. She grunts to the bartender.
Without looking up from his magazine, he absently slides down a
small tray containing another miniature sake-bottle and a bowl of
rice crackers.
Yoko-ono flips-out the crackers over her shoulder and empties the
bottle into her glass. The front door opens and closes, a
shuttering of street-light. The bartender looks up.
Low-angle: Tracy, back-lit in the door-frame. She glares down the
room at Yoko-ono. Yoko-ono drinks, oblivious. Tracy says coolly
to the bartender:
TRACY
Chocolate milk, cold.
Tracy advances to the end of the bar and sits down next to Yokoono. She introduces herself:
TRACY
Tracy Walker, Megasaki Senior High Daily-Manifesto. Are
you Professor Watanabe’s former Assistant-Scientist,
Yoko-ono-san?
Yoko-ono shrugs, oblivious. Tracy takes a note-book out of her
satchel and opens it on the counter-top. A glass of chocolate
milks slides over to her. She drinks it in one gulp and signals
for another. She plants her note-book in front of Yoko-ono and
asks:
TRACY
Do I have it?
Yoko-ono, irritated, scans the note-book. She flips a page. She

shakes her head and mutters in Japanese then English:
YOKO-ONO
Too late.
Yoko-ono shoves the note-book back to Tracy. A second glass of
chocolate milk slides into place. Tracy only takes a small sip.
She slides the note-book back to Yoko-ono and says more firmly:
TRACY
Do I have it?
Yoko-ono squints at the note-book again. She shakes her head. She
repeats:
YOKO-ONO
Too late. Nobody cares.
As Yoko-ono begins to shove the note-book back to Tracy once
again, Tracy throws the contents of her chocolate milk-glass into
Yoko-ono’s face, slings all the empty miniature sake-bottles off
the counter (sending them shattering to the floor), and slaps
Yoko-ono briskly twice, forehand and backhand, across the face.
She shouts:
TRACY
Do I have it? Do I have the story? Yes or no? On the
record! I’m sorry for your loss, but we both know: that
was no suicide!
(furious)
I need to prove my conspiracy-theory!
Pause. Yoko-ono breaks-down into hysterical sobbing and wailing.
Tracy grabs her shoulders and shakes her forcefully.
TRACY
Pull yourself together and act like a scientist!
YOKO-ONO
(stammering)
Ben is dead. No future on Trash Island. I am -failure.
TRACY
(grimly)
Professor Watanabe never gave up.
Yoko-ono takes a deep breath. She wipes her eyes. She signals to
the bartender. The bartender nods.

INSERT:
A small refrigerator behind the counter filled entirely with neat
rows of miniature sake-bottles. The bartender reaches to the back
and withdraws a small, corked, hidden, blue serum-vial.
The serum-vial slides down to Tracy and Yoko-ono. A label on it
reads: Not for Human Consumption (Dogs Only). Tracy stares at the
little glass bottle. She asks, on the edge of her seat:
TRACY
Is this the serum? The Dog-Flu cure? The Snout-Fever
treatment? The end of the Canine Saturation-crisis?
YOKO-ONO
(whispers)
Last dose.
Tracy snatches up the serum-vial, grabs her satchel and notebook, and rushes toward the door. Yoko-ono shouts after her:
YOKO-ONO
Tracy: be careful!
But the girl is already out on the street.
TITLE:
Part Four:
“Atari’s Lantern”
INSERT:
A wood-block-print propaganda portrait of Mayor Kobayashi papered
to a brick wall. Its text reads:
Re-Election Night!
6pm
Municipal Dome
A pair of hands throws a card-board stencil over the poster,
shakes a clackling spray-paint can, hisses red pigment, and
whisks away the stencil to reveal:
ATARI LIVES!
CUT TO:
The entire length of the block plastered with the Re-Election

Night posted-bills five-high, half of them already defaced with
the stencil. A student-protestor wearing a Pro-Dog headband and
an Atari T-shirt stands at the top of a ladder continuing his
methodical vandalism.
EXT. MUNICIPAL DOME. NIGHT
The steps of the massive, stone edifice swarm with studentprotestors: Atari T-shirts, Pro-Dog headbands, picket-signs with
dog-names/pictures. Tracy, on the top step with a megaphone,
shouts to her comrades, call-and-response-style:
TRACY
Not-fair!
STUDENT-PROTESTORS
To-dog!
TRACY
Not-fair!
STUDENT-PROTESTORS
To-dog!
INT. MUNICIPAL DOME. NIGHT
The central rotunda, a full house. Mayor Kobayashi is on-stage,
mid-speech, flanked by: the military-officer, the bespectacledexecutive, the technology-tycooness, the yakuza-gangster, and
Major-Domo. Their pet cats purr and preen behind them. The
interpreter translates the mayor’s address:
INTERPRETER (V.O.)
The time has come to put the violent, intimidating,
unsanitary bad-dogs of Trash Island humanely to sleep.
For their own good; and, also: ours.
(to the military-officer)
General Yamatachi? Bring out the replacement-pet.
The military-officer presses a button on a silver remote-control,
and a robotic lap-dog emerges from back-stage. It strikes several
poses as the audience oohs and aahs. The mayor points at it and
shouts:
MAYOR KOBAYASHI
Sit-o!
The robotic lap-dog sits. Mayor Kobayashi looks to the crowd and
raises his hands into the air, victorious. The room goes wild. In

her glass booth, the interpreter says excitedly:
INTERPRETER
The results are in! Stand by for the incoming ReElection Night tally!
INSERT:
The viewing-screen above the dais. A computer-expert in front of
a vast main-frame with spinning reels reads-out the numbers in
Japanese while accompanying text tells us:
Kobayashi Dynasty: 98.6%
Other: 1.3% (approx.)
Deafening applause and jubilation. The mayor beams.
CUT TO:
The student-protestors on the steps outside. They watch as the
re-election-results appear on a giant viewing-screen above a busstop. They are horrified. Tracy shouts into her mega-phone:
TRACY
That crook! He’s stealing the reelection again! Let’s
go!
The student-protestors shove their way through the doors of the
Municipal Dome.
CUT TO:
The podium. The mayor issues instructions to Major-Domo.
INTERPRETER (V.O.)
Mayor Kobayashi has directed Major-Domo to bring him
the Red-Button.
Major-Domo places a small, electronic console (with a single
button like a game-show buzzer) onto the lectern and plugs it
into a communications-outlet.
MONTAGE:
Sprinkler-jets. Overhead pipes. Dog-catchers on guard. A hovering
rescue-drone. The large wasabi-gas tank. A full company of robotdogs encircling: all the imprisoned animals herded into a chainlink corral at the center of the dog-camp. Jupiter, Nutmeg,
Oracle, et al. They look terrified and confused. Inside the metal

control-shed, another dog-catcher waits, gripping a lever, and
watching an un-illuminated panel-light (labeled: Go!) on his own
console next to the television set -- which displays a live-feed
of the Re-Election Night event.
CUT TO:
The mayor and his cohorts, startled, as the student-protestors
charge up the aisles and rush the stage. Tracy mounts the steps,
along with Editor-Hiroshi and the rest of the Daily-Manifesto
staff, while Mayor Kobayashi gently restrains the militaryofficer and the yakuza-gangster. She shouts into her mega-phone:
TRACY
This landslide re-election is a massive fraud, and we
demand a re-count!
Bodyguards and sumo wrestlers enter from the wings. Major-Domo
grabs the silver remote-control from the military officer and
presses several buttons. With a beep, a crunch, and powerful
whir: the robotic lap-dog transforms into its military robot-dog
form.
The chaotic room goes still and silent. The mayor shouts for his
colleagues to stand down. The bodyguards retreat slightly. The
robot-dog idles. Major-Domo’s fingers linger, paused, above the
buttons of the silver remote-control. Tracy and Editor-Hiroshi
exchange a frightened look. The interpreter announces, surprised:
INTERPRETER (V.O.)
The mayor is allowing the unauthorized Pro-Dog studentprotestors a platform to voice their dissenting
beliefs!
The mayor steps down from the podium and gestures for Tracy to
speak her piece. She takes a deep breath. She strides over to the
lectern. She steps up to the microphone and begins with a
furious:
TRACY
Mayor Kobayashi has dog’s-blood on his hands! You all
do!
The crowd immediately boos, jeers, and hisses. As Tracy presseson, we cut among the listeners (including the sushi chef):
TRACY
Atari was a hero. Professor Watanabe was murdered. The

serum works!
Tracy holds up the late-edition of the Daily-Manifesto over her
head.
INSERT:
The front page. Headline: The Serum Works! There is an
accompanying image of the last-dose serum-vial.
CUT TO:
The laboratory-bar. Yoko-ono and the bartender watch the
proceedings on a wall-mounted television set. Yoko-ono looks
hopeful but anxious. She is drinking chocolate milk.
CUT TO:
Tracy as she reaches the climax of her speech, which is:
TRACY
The mayor is a crook, and I hate him. Thank you.
Tracy steps down from the lectern. The audience grumbles and
mutters. Mayor Kobayashi stares at Tracy evenly. He steps back up
to the podium and responds in Japanese to Tracy’s accusations.
The interpreter translates from her glass booth:
INTERPRETER
This small minority of dog-lovers has been sent by
overseas special-interest groups to agitate disorder
and incite anarchy.
CUT TO:
Major-Domo on-stage as he demands several items directly from
Tracy’s pockets.
INSERT:
Tracy’s immigration-permit, her student I.D., and her Megasaki
Senior High class-pin as they are confiscated by the mayor’s
hatchet-man. In return, he provides her with a one-way, non-stop,
economy-class airline ticket on Megasaki International.
INTERPRETER (V.O.)
I hereby cancel and nullify Foreign-exchange-studentWalker’s senior high school study-visa. She will be
expelled from class, stripped of her course-credits,

and formally deported on the next direct-flight back to
Cincinnati, Ohio.
Applause. Tracy begins to cry.
A tremendous dog-sneeze blasts echoing through the great hall.
All eyes in the room turn at once to the center-entrance at the
back of the auditorium where:
Atari stands with Chief, Spots, Rex, King, Duke, Boss,
Peppermint, and the litter of infant pups. As they advance into
the chamber, Gondo and all the rest of the aboriginal dogs flood
up the aisle behind them.
Audience-members gasp. The mayor’s mouth falls open. Major-Domo
glares, stunned. Tracy looks wildly delighted, her eyes still
filled with tears. The robot-dog continues idling and whirring.
Atari slowly hobbles to the front of the room followed by his
company of dogs. He now walks with a cane (in fact, a discarded
yard-stick). Chief and Spots assist him as he climbs the steps to
the stage. The cats hiss and cower.
Atari bows to the mayor. Mayor Kobayashi, dazed, bows back to
him. Atari turns to Tracy and motions to Chief. Tracy hesitates,
uncertain -- then gets the idea: she reaches into one pocket and
withdraws a hypodermic needle. She reaches into another pocket
and withdraws the blue serum-vial. She jabs the needle through
the serum-vial’s rubber-cap and shoots the last-dose into Chief’s
flank. Chief yelps briefly. (A microphone on a very low stand has
been placed in front of the dog.)
The room remains silent and transfixed as: Chief squirms
slightly. He stretches his neck and shoulders. He swallows. He
straightens suddenly. His eyes widen and brighten. The tension in
his body wanes, all at once. In a snap, the sheen returns to his
coat. He starts to sneeze -- then stops-short and blurts into the
microphone:
CHIEF
Holy smokes! My lungs feel clear. My equilibrium feels
balanced. My vision is sharp as a tack for the first
time in months. Wow, that’s a great serum!
Audience-members all around the room frown and murmur, confused
and uneasy. Atari addresses the mayor formally and briefly in
Japanese. The mayor nods. The interpreter continues her
commentary in the glass booth:

INTERPRETER
Master Atari, whose death, I think we can say, appears
to have been inaccurately reported, has asked to read a
statement to the General Assembly. He will then
withdraw from the debate and respond to no further
questions.
Atari raises the dog-level microphone. He takes the paper-towel
document out of his pocket and begins to read. Tracy, discreetly,
translates Atari’s speech into English, reading at a whisper into
a hand-held memo-recorder:
TRACY
Dear Editor-Hiroshi of the Megasaki Senior High DailyManifesto: your publication has a reputation for truth,
integrity, and excellent writing. In a series of firstrate articles by an attractive -Tracy hesitates as Atari continues his speech. She blushes but
reads-on:
TRACY
-- cub-reporter on your staff, you shine a spot-light
on the great injustice that has occurred under the
Kobayashi Administration (with the blessing of its
constituency). I have spent much of my time in recent
weeks traveling in the company of the very kind of
animals our mayor refers to as “bad-dogs”. They are the
finest living-beings I have ever come to know in all my
dozen years on this earth. To your readers, the goodpeople of Megasaki, I say: the cycle of life always
hangs in a delicate balance. Who are we, and who do we
want to be?
Atari holds up a finger. He repeats curtly into the microphone in
English:
ATARI
Who are we?
Tracy nods. She continues her recording:
TRACY
I wrote a haiku to try to express my feelings about the
suffering dogs of Trash Island. It is also about
nature, love, friendship, eternity, and a black owl. I
call it: “Atari’s Lantern”.

CUT TO:
Viewers across the city of Megasaki: the audience at the
Municipal Dome; pedestrians on the street below the bus-stop
viewing-screen; two parents with five brothers in their family
den; two parents and two grandparents with five sisters in their
family kitchen; a librarian and ten janitorial staff-members in
the school library; a crowd at a neon-lit noodle-shop; the grandmother from Tracy’s residence. They all lean-in toward their
television sets, spellbound.
FANTASY-SHOT:
Framed by a round-iris matte-shot: Atari stands in an exquisite
park among a hundred cherry-trees in full-bloom. Chief is seated
on his left. Spots is seated on his right. As Atari recites in
Japanese, the words of his haiku appear onscreen in both
languages:
What-ever-happen?
To-man’s-best-friend.
Falling-spring-blossom.
On-cue, the blossoms all around cascade from their branches until
the trees are bare -- and the ground is blanketed in petals.
CUT TO:
The same viewers across the city: now in tears. Chief and Spots,
on-stage, watch over Atari with defiant pride. Tracy sniffles.
She continues to translate as Atari finishes the paper-towel
speech:
TRACY
I dedicate this poem to my distant-uncle, Mayor
Kobayashi, who took me in when I myself was a stray-dog
with nowhere else to turn. Editor-Hiroshi, please,
extend my subscription for an additional year. I
enclose a check in the amount of one thousand yen.
Signed, Atari Kobayashi, former ward to the mayoralhousehold.
Atari holds up an endorsed check. The interpreter, beside
herself, overcome with emotion, struggles with her own
translation:
INTERPRETER
He said a haiku.

(unable to continue)
I’ll tell you later.
Mayor Kobayashi has turned his back to the audience. His arms are
crossed. Everyone watches him: Tracy and the student-protestors;
Major-Domo and the mayor’s stooges; the living-dogs and the
robot-dog; the stalls of the crowded auditorium.
CLOSE-UP:
The mayor turns around. His face is bright-scarlet. His ears are
vibrating. His eyes are pinched into a tight, furious squint. Two
wisps of smoke come out of his nostrils like a bull about to
steam-roll a matador. Suddenly, tears stream down his face and
his voice shatters as he stammers into his microphone. The
interpreter translates sentence-by-sentence:
INTERPRETER
Not-fair-to-boy. Not-fair-to-dog. I-have-no-honor.
The mayor slams his fist down onto the podium. He turns to the
wings and shouts in English:
MAYOR KOBAYASHI
Bring-me-Trash-Island-legislation!
Major-Domo frowns. He looks to the military-officer, the
bespectacled-executive, the technology-tycooness, and the yakuzagangster. They are confused. An aide places the familiar document
onto the lectern. Its projected image appears on the viewingscreen above. With a sudden flourish, the mayor produces his
stamp-hammer and thumps the document at the podium again, this
time instantly and completely erasing the seal of his office -formally de-activating the Trash Island Decree. The crowd gasps
again.
INTERPRETER
Holy Moses! The mayor has just officially repealed the
Trash Island Decree! No kidding!
CLOSE-UPS:
Atari, Tracy, Chief, Spots, Editor-Hiroshi, Rex, King, Duke,
Boss: all flummoxed. Major-Domo narrows his eyes and grits his
slightly pointy teeth. He presses a button on the silver remotecontrol.
The robot-dog springs to life, leaping in front of the podium in
its full-on attack posture. Its retracted bayonets emerge. Its

canine-teeth switch to blades. Its electronic roar booms at the
mayor. The mayor freezes. Dead silence.
Major-Domo shouts at the mayor and points to: the Red-Button. The
mayor shakes his head and refuses. Major-Domo screams at the
mayor, pointing again. The robot-dog advances three paces toward
the podium. The fighting-screens slide over its eyes.
INSERT:
The Red-Button console.
EXTREME CLOSE-UP:
Mayor Kobayashi sweats.
REVERSE:
Major-Domo, backed by his four cohorts. He hesitates with his
finger still poised over the silver remote-control.
INTERPRETER (V.O.)
Major-Domo is accusing the mayor of breaking his
campaign promise! He’s steaming mad! It’s going to be a
fight!
INSERT:
The silver remote-control. A skeletal finger presses a button.
The robot-dog lunges at the mayor, smashing-through the wooden
podium and blasting it to smithereens. The Red-Button console
clickity-clacks onto the floor, still wired to its
communications-outlet. The mayor retreats, dashing behind the
theatre-curtain. The robot-dog roars after him. The stage breaks
into a chaotic riot: politicians, protestors, students,
bodyguards, cats, dogs.
Spots looks to Chief with a strange, grim expression. Chief
shouts, desperate:
CHIEF
Spit him with a tooth!
SPOTS
(resigned)
I can’t get a clean shot. Too many innocent protestors.
I’ll be right back.

Spots looks briefly to Peppermint and the six pups. He smiles
faintly. He dashes-in after the robot-dog and disappears behind
the theatre-curtain. Atari, Chief, Tracy, and the others watch as
the theatre-curtain billows and swings and darts and jolts amid
screams and roars and bangs and booms. Finally, there is calm.
The robot-dog re-emerges from behind the theatre-curtain. It
pauses at center-stage. It sways slightly, leans over sideways,
and collapses. Spots re-emerges from behind the theatre-curtain.
He pauses at center-stage. He sways slightly, leans over
sideways, and collapses. Mayor Kobayashi re-emerges from behind
the theatre-curtain. He pauses at center-stage. He looks to
Atari.
Atari sways slightly, leans over sideways, and collapses.
As Tracy, Chief, and the mayor rush to assist the fallen Atari -Major-Domo dives across the stage to the Red-Button, still
plugged-in on the floor. He slams his palm down onto it with a
whack. The camera whip-pans to the communications-outlet.
MONTAGE:
1. The panel-light in the control-shed at the dog-camp
illuminates: Go!
2. Chief leaps at Major-Domo and clamps his jaws like a bear-trap
onto the hatchet-man’s hand. Major-Domo screams.
3. The waiting dog-catcher in the control-shed pulls his lever.
4. Rex, King, Duke, and Boss assault the military-officer, the
bespectacled-executive, the technology-tycooness, and the yakuzagangster.
5. The wasabi-gas tank rumbles and pumps. The over-head pipes
clank and squeal. The sprinkler-jets hum and vibrate.
6. The Hero Pack chases Major-Domo and his cronies behind the
curtain, which begins to billow and swing and dart and jolt
again.
CUT TO:
The rescue-drone blasting its spot-light down at the dog-camp.
The company of dog-catchers puts on their gas-masks. The trapped
dogs cower. The surrounding robot-dogs close-ranks. The dogcatcher in the control-shed looks-out from his window.

On the roof of the control-shed: the rookie-dog-catcher lies on
his stomach, watching with binoculars. His helmet has been
replaced with a Pro-Dog headband. There is a computer at his side
with wires running down the side of the shed. He lowers his
binoculars.
One of the dog-catchers in the yard looks puzzled. He taps the
side of his gas-mask. He looks to another dog-catcher. Both of
their gas-masks begin to fill with puffs of yellow smoke. They
look to the other dog-catchers. All their gas-masks are now
filling-up with the yellow wasabi-gas. They clutch and pull at
straps and hoses. In the shed: the dog-catcher frowns and looks
around, frantic. The shed is rapidly filling with wasabi-gas, as
well.
The trapped dogs look at each other, confused but hopeful. The
rookie-dog-catcher types more commands on his computer. All at
once: every robot-dog in the dog-camp transforms into a robotic
lap-dog. Jupiter hesitates. He bellows:
JUPITER
Escape!
The trapped dogs explode into a frenzy. Jupiter, Oracle, and
Nutmeg lead the charge as the dog-mob forces open the gates of
the chain-link corral. They over-run the circle of robotic lapdogs (who cheerfully jump and play among them). They charge past
the coughing, mask-less dog-catchers, including the one who
bursts hacking and choking from the shed. They slam their way out
of the dog-camp and run away in every direction. The rookie dogcatcher on the roof of the shed looks up at the sky. He types in
a final command.
The rescue-drone teeters, sputters, falls-flat with a thundering
impact, and (as before) explodes with a miniature nuclear blast.
INT. AMBULANCE. NIGHT
Tracy, Chief, and the mayor sit at Atari’s side while he lies in
a gurney with tubes in his arms and nose, unconscious. In the
rear-corner of the vehicle, Spots is also unconscious, lying on
his side in a plastic-bin.
INT. MEGASAKI GENERAL. NIGHT
A hospital waiting-room. Tracy and Chief wait side-by-side in
plastic chairs. Peppermint nurses the six pups on the floor next
to a drinking-water dispenser. Rex, King, Duke, and Boss sleep

under a magazine-rack. Mayor Kobayashi, in hand-cuffs, paces,
regretful and anxious.
A doctor wearing a surgical-mask bursts into the room. He carries
the remaining hunk of the broken propeller-clutch in his slightly
bloody, latex-gloved hands. He takes one last, cursory look at
the thing, then tosses it into a waste-basket and says to Tracy
in English:
SURGEON
The brain surgery was a complete success, but his left
kidney failed due to the stress of the operation.
TRACY
(hesitates)
What about the right one?
SURGEON
(unfortunately)
He lost it in a train-crash two years ago.
Without hesitation, the mayor (still hand-cuffed) stands-up,
approaches the surgeon, bows deeply, and issues a command at an
urgent whisper:
MAYOR KOBAYASHI
Take my left kidney. Give to Atari-san.
OVERHEAD ANGLE:
Atari and Mayor Kobayashi lie unconscious on two side-by-side
operating-tables. Both patients are covered by white sheets and
wear anesthetic-masks over their faces. The mayor is still in
hand-cuffs. The surgeon operates, briskly removing the mayor’s
left kidney and installing it into Atari’s abdomen. He stitchesup the two incisions neatly. Chief watches the procedure through
a window with his own surgical-mask over his snout. He goes to
another window and looks-in at:
Spots on his own operating table, intubated. A pulse-monitor
beside him displays only the faintest blip.
INSERT:
A publicity wood-block-print of Atari and Spots wreathed in
flower petals. Captions above and below read:
Pray for Atari and Spots
Beloved Ward and Bodyguard-Dog

To the Mayoral-Household
INT. MUNICIPAL DOME. NIGHT
The Re-Election Night event has become a candle-light vigil.
Editor-Hiroshi, at the podium, holds-up a book entitled: Election
Law (Revised) and speaks to the audience in Japanese. The
interpreter explains:
INTERPRETER (V.O.)
According to a long-standing statute unique to Uni
Prefecture, in the event of the death, disappearance,
or felony-prosecution of the chosen candidate on,
while, during, or concurrent with the Re-Election Night
ceremony, all powers and authorities vested in his or
her designated office transfer forthwith to his or her
next-of-kin and/or appointed heir. In other words,
Atari Kobayashi is the new mayor of Megasaki City!
Atari appears on the viewing-screen in his hospital-bed. He
smiles to the audience, drugged. The surgeon at his side gives a
thumbs-up. The audience cheers, cries, hugs, and shouts. The
interpreter in her glass booth shares a final, dazzled moment:
INTERPRETER
You heard me right: Atari Kobayashi is the new mayor of
Megasaki City! (Let’s hope that new kidney works.) Boy,
what a night!
The audience begins to sing The Boy Samurai. The taiko barreldrummers from the opening titles join them, pounding away onstage.
INT. LIVING ROOM. NIGHT
Rex (with a fresh hair-cut) lies half-asleep, curled-up on a
lamb’s-wool bean-bag next to an electric space-heater. His
elderly school-teacher master sits nearby in a recliner studying
a math textbook.
NARRATOR (V.O.)
Life in Uni Prefecture returned to a comfortable
tranquility.
EXT. BASEBALL DIAMOND. DAY
Boss (in a clean, new jersey) watches with mixed-feelings from a
dug-out as another strike-out returns from home-plate and joins
his seated team-mates. Boss licks the player’s hand encouragingly

as he passes-by.
NARRATOR (V.O.)
The Megasaki Dragons ended their winning streak with a
staggering loss to the Honda Goblins.
INT. TELEVISION STUDIO. DAY
King (immaculately brushed) sits calmly with tissues tuckedaround his collar next to his rotund, white-aproned master while
a make-up artist touches-up both of them and a cameraman takes a
light-reading. A hundred stacked cans labeled Doggy-Chop surround
them.
NARRATOR (V.O.)
Doggy-Chop re-opened all eleven of its domestic
factories -INT/EXT. SCREENED-PORCH. DAY
Duke (fully groomed) sips from a flowery, ceramic dog-bowl while
his middle-aged-matron master and her two very similar friends
sit circled around him, stirring matching tea-cups, cooing
admiringly, and petting him. Duke’s master feeds him a dogbiscuit.
NARRATOR (V.O.)
-- and Puppy-Snaps resumed production with an improved
product.
INSERT:
A chalk-board menu. Today’s items: bologna sashimi, shrimpflavored patty, frozen fish-sticks hand-roll, tap-water. The
camera tilts-down as a bento-box slides into frame and is briskly
filled with the rations listed above.
INT. PREFECTURE PRISON. DAY
The lunch-room of a minimum-security penitentiary. The sushi-chef
(in a prison-striped head-band and kimono) serves the inmates as
they glide-by down a cafeteria-line: Major-Domo, the militaryofficer, the bespectacled-executive, the technology-tycooness,
the yakuza-gangster, and Mayor Kobayashi himself (all in their
own prison-striped kimonos). The mayor rolls an I.V. drip at his
side.
NARRATOR (V.O.)
Graft and political corruption were reduced to

sustainable, acceptable levels.
Outside, leashed together like a chain-gang: the mayor and his
cronies’ five cats slink, sullen, across the prison-yard.
EXT. VETERINARY-TENT. DAY
A refugee-camp mobile-clinic. Yoko-ono inoculates a beagle at the
head of a procession of waiting dogs. Seconds after the dose, the
dog perks-up, powerfully rejuvenated.
NARRATOR (V.O.)
The Dog-Flu serum cured every breathing-animal in the
region.
INSERT:
The front-page of the Daily-Manifesto. Headline: Megasaki City
Salutes Former Bodyguard-Dog. There is a wood-block-print of a
newly-erected bronze-and-stone statue of Spots in his dog-cage.
NARRATOR (V.O.)
A remorseful society embraced its once-forsaken pets.
EXT. JUNK-YARD. DAY
Trash Island, dog-less -- with the exception of one animal seated
in the foreground in silhouette with its back to the camera
looking out over the sea of refuse.
NARRATOR (V.O.)
Some say a few lost-dogs continue to roam and scavenge
on Trash Island -The dog turns to the camera with a metallic creak. Its eyes glow
yellow. It “sneezes”. (Actually, an electronic hiccup.)
NARRATOR (V.O.)
-- however, these rumors remain unconfirmed.
INT. MAYORAL RESIDENCE. NIGHT
The boardroom, redecorated. Atari, in a formal mayoral kimono,
sits at the head of the lacquered table with Chief at his side.
He confers with a new group while the stenographer taps away and
the Simul-Translate machine translates:
SIMUL-TRANSLATE (V.O.)
Mayor Atari, we all agree it should be a crime to

abuse, beat, murder, or yell at any dog in Megasaki
City.
The camera pans from Atari to Editor-Hiroshi (who has been
speaking off-screen in Japanese) with Scrap at his side.
SIMUL-TRANSLATE (V.O.)
That is not the question. The question is: what is the
appropriate punishment?
The camera pans from Editor-Hiroshi to Tracy with Nutmeg at her
side as Atari responds (off-screen in Japanese):
SIMUL-TRANSLATE (V.O.)
Exactly. And the answer is: Death Penalty.
The camera pans from Tracy to the rookie dog-catcher with Gondo
at his side as Editor-Hiroshi continues to debate the issue:
SIMUL-TRANSLATE (V.O.)
That seems excessive to us.
The camera pans back to Atari, who continues to stand his ground
as the meeting concludes:
SIMUL-TRANSLATE (V.O.)
Possibly. Anyway, we should make it at least 60 days
community-service and a fine of no less than 750,000
yen. Meeting adjourned.
CUT TO:
A pair of escort-trams manned by sumo-guards and followed by
Atari and Tracy in an armored mayoral-tram. Atari feeds the runt
from Peppermint’s litter with a baby-bottle. He puts his arm
around Tracy’s shoulder. He speaks briefly into his earphone (in
Japanese). The camera dollies one tram back to the caboose of the
tram-cade where we find Chief in his capacity as security-detail.
He answers soberly, scanning the route ahead:
CHIEF (O.S.)
I’m standing-by, Master Atari.
A familiar voice comes from off-screen at the rear of the tram:
NUTMEG
How’s it feel to be a former stray?
Nutmeg sidles up next to Chief. She now wears her own secret-

service-type earphone. Chief answers, bittersweet:
CHIEF
I take it one day at a time. Last week, I nearly behanded an industrial-lobbyist from West Suzuki. They
had to give him a blood transfusion.
NUTMEG
(gently)
He probably had it coming.
CHIEF
Maybe.
CHIEF
(pause)
Learned any new tricks?
NUTMEG
(a little reluctant)
Actually, yes. Just one.
CHIEF
(suddenly eager)
Can I see it?
Nutmeg takes a deep breath. She springs-down onto her forelegs,
jolts-up a notch onto the index-claw of one paw (balancing with
the other), and cycles her hind-legs in a piston-motion.
NUTMEG
I’m supposed to be juggling ten bowling-pins engulfed
in flames over my tail at this point, but you just have
to imagine that part.
CHIEF
(instantly)
I can picture it.
Nutmeg ends the trick. Chief asks softly, a bit more than justcurious:
CHIEF
You still against bringing puppies into this world?
Nutmeg starts to answer -- but hesitates. She says gently,
almost-ready:
NUTMEG

I’ll tell you when I get to know you better.
CHIEF
(pause)
Fair enough.
The tram-cade crosses above a blooming Megasaki Park. Seed-pods
float into the air like feathers. Sunbeams break through the soft
clouds.
CHIEF
My friends think I like to fight, but it’s just not
true. Sometimes I lose my temper and blow off a little
steam -- but I’ve never enjoyed it. I’m not a violent
dog. I don’t know why I bite.
NUTMEG
(simply)
I’m not attracted to tame animals.
Nutmeg licks a seed-pod off Chief’s snout. Chief looks slightly
bashful, but mostly amused and grateful.
CHIEF
Thank you.
Chief begins to whistle the ancient folk-tune as the two dogs
continue their afternoon security-cruise. Up ahead: Atari kisses
Tracy. They hold hands as the tram-cade buzzes along.
EXT. SHINTO TEMPLE. EVENING
A bright-red, wooden shrine floating at the center of a man-made
reflecting-pool. The statue of Spots stands at the center of the
entrance. A bilingual plaque reads:
Dedicated to Spots Kobayashi
(Former Bodyguard-Dog to the Mayoral-Household)
For Distinguished Service
With Gratitude
From the People and Dogs of Megasaki City
The camera booms-down to reveal a lacquered dog-hovel with tatami
floors and silk cushions at the edge of the reflecting-pool.
Reclining inside are: Peppermint, the five pups, and Spots (with
a splint on his leg and a bandage on his head). A priest in a
tall black hat and white kimono serves a tray of two large and
six extremely small dog-bowls labeled Doggy-Chop. The black owl
sits perched on top of the roof of the shrine. It hoots.

The taiko barrel-drummers resume their relentless beat as the
bird stretches its wings, floats-up into the air, and flies away
over the dusk-lit city.

SQ2 MAYOR KOBAYASHI CAMPAIGN POSTER
Michael Gaskell

SQ55 MAYOR ATARI OFFICIAL SCREEN
Camille Moulin-Dupré

SQ22 MAYOR KOBAYASHI OFFICIAL SCREEN
Camille Moulin-Dupré

SQ22 SUPERVISOR KITANO OFFICIAL SCREEN
Camille Moulin-Dupré

SQ2 MEGASAKI CITY
Carl Sprague

SQ8 ATARI KOBAYASHI
Félicie Haymoz

SQ2/25 FOREIGN-EXCHANGE STUDENT
TRACY WALKER
Félicie Haymoz

SQ48 ATARI SILKSCREEN/STENCIL
Molly Rosenblatt

SQ5 SPOTS WOOD-BLOCK PRINT
Molly Rosenblatt

SQ2 ASSISTANT HATCHET-MAN
MAJOR-DOMO
Félicie Haymoz

SQ0.5 SHINTO SHRINE
Kevin J. J. Hill

SQ47 SAKE BAR
Kevin J. J. Hill

SQ45 MEGASAKI SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL STUDENT THEATRE
Turlo Griffin

SQ36 THE FAR-AWAY CUTICLES
Turlo Griffin

SQ44 KOBAYASHI ANIMAL-TESTING PLANT
Turlo Griffin

SQ4 SPASMODIC NASAL EXPIRATION
Turlo Griffin

SQ4 INSOMNIA
Turlo Griffin

SQ24 22 VIEWS OF TRASH ISLAND
Victor Georgiev

SQ30 CRUSHER/COMPACTOR/INCINERATOR EXTERIOR
Victor Georgiev

SQ31 KOBAYASHI PARK
Victor Georgiev

About the Author
Wes Anderson is the writer/director of Bottle Rocket, Rushmore,
The Royal Tenenbaums, The Life Acquatic with Steve Zissou,
Darjeeling Limited, Fantastic Mr Fox and Moonrise Kingdom.

Also by the Author
also by Wes Anderson from Faber
RUSHMORE
THE ROYAL TENENBAUMS
MOONRISE KINGDOM
THE GRAND BUDAPEST HOTEL

Copyright
First published in the UK in 2018
by Faber & Faber Ltd
Bloomsbury House
74–77 Great Russell Street
London WC1B 3DA
Published in the USA in 2018
This ebook edition first published in 2018
All rights reserved
© Wes Anderson, 2018
Cover design by Faber
Cover image © 2017 Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
The right of Wes Anderson to be identified as author of this work has been asserted in accordance with
Section 77 of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988
This ebook is copyright material and must not be copied, reproduced, transferred, distributed, leased,
licensed or publicly performed or used in any way except as specifically permitted in writing by the
publishers, as allowed under the terms and conditions under which it was purchased or as strictly
permitted by applicable copyright law. Any unauthorised distribution or use of this text may be a direct
infringement of the author’s and publisher’s rights, and those responsible may be liable in law
accordingly
ISBN 978–0–571–33645–6